in writing, i am pleased that today we are discussing with the commission and the council concrete measures, especially financial, to implement the youth guarantee at member state level. the current youth employment situation is tragic in most member states of the european union, including lithuania, and is only getting worse. young people do not need pretty words and promises, but effective and targeted guarantees. the commission's initiative to give our young people the opportunity to start work, study or do an internship no later than four months after they have completed their studies or become unemployed is welcome, but i would like to ask the commission how and when the member states intend to implement these objectives. particular attention should be paid to helping those member states which have already 'buckled down' or are still cutting their budgets to implement this programme. in addition, in addition to highlighting the record-breaking youth unemployment, concrete actions should be taken to help business companies and enterprises to create as many new jobs as possible for young people, and to ensure closer coordination and cooperation between educational institutions, governments and employers. moreover, the creation of programmes and initiatives alone will not solve the current problems of youth employment. the commission should provide specific financial support for this programme in the member states, otherwise the youth guarantee will remain a model of good intentions and expectations.
in writing. the youth guarantee initiative discussed by the european parliament today is a major incentive for the eu member states' ministers for social affairs and employment to focus on targeted actions to reduce youth unemployment and social exclusion. the youth guarantee scheme provides very specific and clear targets for young people under 25 and under 30 with a tertiary education to be able to enter employment, further education or training within four months of leaving school or losing their job. that is a commendable example. because when the criteria for achieving the goals are clearly stated, the effort is likely to be more effective. experience has shown that abstract language and the declaration of the need to tackle the problem of youth unemployment, which is approaching the critical threshold, without clear criteria for monitoring the situation and justifying the results, have been simply ineffective. it remains to be seen whether the member states' ministers will accept the proposed action plan and take the initiative in their own countries to focus the efforts of business and public authorities to tackle the problem.
mr president, 13 january is an outstanding day for the freedom of europe. today we mark the 30th anniversary of the acknowledgment of the truth by the european parliament. on 13 january 1983, a resolution was adopted which recognised the fact of occupation and annexation of lithuania, latvia and estonia by the soviet union and called for action by the international community. eight years later on the same date, on 13 january 1991, it took the ultimate sacrifice to defend my country’s freedom, when the soviet military attacked singing masses in vilnius with tanks and bullets. this desperate act by the kremlin left 14 defenceless people dead, many hundreds injured, and the world shocked. today europe is free and reunited, and i want to thank this house and each and every one who dared to speak out at that time for truth and freedom. however, when it comes to cooperation among the eu countries in bringing to justice those who committed crimes against humanity, there is still a lack of understanding. i call for deeper knowledge of the most recent history of europe. truth and remembrance solidifies our union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on sustainable urban development, which aims to promote the competitiveness of the eu as a whole by exploiting the potential of the eu's regions and urban areas. it is proposed that medium- and long-term action plans for urban areas be developed to complete and restore parts of cities, restructure abandoned areas, support artistic and cultural heritage and optimise the use of cohesion policy funds to achieve these objectives. as the most vulnerable groups of the population (who are often excluded) are threatened by urban regeneration processes, i agree that priority should be given to ensuring the social sustainability of urban regeneration by providing for appropriate housing policies and services, and the integration of vulnerable and excluded groups in urban areas. it is important to give citizens access to public spaces, parks and places for leisure, culture and sport. i also support calls for incentives to combat energy inefficiency, reduce urban pollution and noise, and ensure sustainable mobility, quality water supply and waste management services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because european cities are one of the main centres of scientific and innovation, cultural and technological flourishing, home to more than two thirds of the european population. on the other hand, cities also suffer from the main problems of unemployment, poverty and discrimination. it could be argued that the further our cities develop, the more economic, social and territorial development will take place in the future. urban development and regeneration is one of the key indicators for the creation of a european model of sustainable urban development. the contribution of programmes such as urban was crucial, as they also implemented measures for social inclusion, such as a new approach to urban regeneration, a common vision to go beyond all social, economic, environmental and infrastructure measures. it is also important to emphasise the need to pay greater attention to the suburbs and their inhabitants. if we can move the city even further into the suburbs, the suburbs could become the basis for a new model of social and economic development. in order to maximise the achievement of the objectives and results set out in the europe 2020 strategy, all sectors, levels of government and territories should be involved and encouraged to cooperate in order to overcome the eroding trends that have emerged during the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - i voted for this document. more than two thirds of europe's population now live in cities. cities are the flourishing spaces of science and technology, culture and innovation. on the other hand, cities also have the most problems, such as unemployment, discrimination and poverty. as cities address the challenges of climate change mitigation, job creation, well-being and quality of life, we need to focus on sustainable urban development. the way our cities develop is the way our economic, social and territorial development will develop in the future. urban renewal and regeneration, seen as sources of wealth and opportunity, is one of the key challenges facing the eu in strengthening the links between urban and development and between the city centre and the suburban areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because urban development and renewal are an integral part of the recovery and growth of the eu economy as a whole, and at the same time of the eu's global competitiveness. in the implementation of cohesion policy, particular attention must be paid to the development of regional and urban areas, to the question of the social sustainability of urban regeneration. improving the living environment and quality of life will help attract a highly skilled workforce and thus contribute to attractive job creation, economic growth in the country's smaller cities and business competitiveness. to ensure a better quality of the environment, it is necessary to combat inefficiently the use of energy and local potential. it should be noted that the preservation of the natural, cultural and historical heritage is an integral element of the quality of life and that an integrated approach is therefore required to achieve this objective in this field.
in writing. − the report tackles the issue of sustainable urban development which represents the engine of the economy, manufacturing and employment. cohesion policy should focus on sustainable urban development which plays a key role in achieving the objectives of europe 2020 and which is a source of economic growth. economic growth can only be sustainable if it is led by measures designed to reduce poverty, social exclusion and environmental hazards. however, nowadays urban areas face many challenges which at this time of economic crisis are difficult to deal with. that is why the set of actions mentioned in the report could serve as a guideline in order to achieve sustainable urban development. such actions include urban and social regeneration, energy efficiency and the fight against poverty. lithuania, as a country where the majority of the population lives in urban areas, has to take actions in order to prevent urban decline, promote urban regeneration and support actions to reinforce social cohesion. i welcome the importance of this report for future cohesion policy and believe that urban development is vital for sustainable growth in lithuania. the eu can only be competitive if cohesion policy fully uses the potential of its urban areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for more efficient and effective eu funding programmes to develop eu territorial cohesion policy, interaction and coordination. in the context of the economic crisis, cohesion policy funding has become increasingly important for the eu's regions, alongside the need to ensure that the funds are spent properly. the proposal also provides for the involvement of local and regional authorities in all stages of the development and implementation of eu funding programmes, so that economic and social needs are addressed at the level closest to the citizens. i support the proposals made to clarify the rules, checks and eligibility criteria for funding. the application of the proposed measures must be kept as simple as possible in order to avoid an additional administrative burden for local authorities. i also support the possibility for these institutions to use more than one eu funding programme to support projects, thus improving the efficiency of funding. the funds must be allocated in a way that addresses the eu's long-term social and economic challenges.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the aim of the common provisions regulation, or cohesion policy, is to reduce disparities between the regions of the european union by strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion. it is important to note that the joint strategic programme includes mechanisms to improve coordination between the funds (erdf, esf, cohesion fund, eafrd, emff) and other eu policies. in this context, it can be argued that territorial cohesion, covering the various cohesion policy areas, is already recognised as a key eu objective in the lisbon treaty. it is important to note that territorial cohesion objectives are inextricably linked to economic and social challenges. however, it is important to ensure a proper balance between the development and implementation of cohesion policy and the necessary checks on the use of funds and their effectiveness. it is therefore important to develop simpler and clearer rules for the use of financial instruments, ensuring greater efficiency for all five funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because cohesion policy aims to reduce disparities between the eu regions. this is attempted by strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion. in the current economic environment, it is clear that cohesion policy funding is becoming increasingly important for europe's regions and that there is a growing need to ensure that money is spent more effectively so that citizens can benefit from eu funding. i supported the proposals in the general provisions regulation as they call for better coordination and integration of funding programmes to ensure a greater impact of funding.
in writing. − i agree with the provisions in the document adopted today that greater integration of the funds must be provided for and that more effective mechanisms for integrating the funds must be established. often the same project could be implemented more efficiently by funding it from another fund, but the mechanisms are too complex and inflexible to allow this (in lithuania, unfortunately, this was one of the obstacles that led to the slow renovation of buildings). this results in a double loss: lost funds and failed projects. i therefore welcome parliament's position in calling for simpler and more flexible mechanisms for the integration of the funds.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the eu as a whole will prosper only if the development of all its territories is balanced. it should be noted that territorial cohesion is horizontal, covering a wide range of sectors. the funding of eu cohesion policy must therefore remain stable in order to achieve convergence. a stronger and more integrated territorial approach is needed to promote greater integration and cooperation between european funds. i believe that we need to create simpler and clearer common rules to ensure the effectiveness of the funds and to facilitate the wider use of financial instruments and the reduction of administrative burdens. local communities must be involved in the development and adoption of decisions relating to specific regions and areas, and partnerships and networks must be encouraged. only by working together will these measures reduce the territorial gap between eu regions, prevent territorial isolation and ensure equal prosperity for eu regions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the harmonisation of the solidarity fund regulation, simplifying the funding procedures and providing clearer, more precise and more transparent definitions. the solidarity fund, one of the most effective and well-reviewed eu instruments, supports emergency rescue operations for people affected by disasters and eases the burden on member states in the event of a disaster. the current long duration of mobilisation of the fund, the excessive length of administrative procedures, and the delay in providing assistance to affected member states often result in the failure to achieve the expected results. the solidarity fund needs to be more flexible, more effective and more visible, and i therefore support the proposals set out here to clarify the scope and scope of the fund, to remove any possible legal uncertainty. most of the administrative problems relate to applications for the exceptional category of regional disasters, so it is essential to clarify the criteria for receiving support from the fund in the event of a so-called minor disaster. disaster prevention is the simplest and cheapest way to reduce vulnerability in the event of a disaster, and i therefore support the call for eu regions to make more use of the various disaster prevention funding opportunities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union has already set up an eu solidarity fund in 2002 to respond adequately to the consequences of natural disasters. it is worth noting that since its creation until september 2012, the fund has provided financial assistance to compensate for the damage caused by 49 disasters (mainly fires and floods). it is clear that this solidarity fund is an important tool for rescuing many countries and their people in the event of a major disaster. however, the fund's activities have recently received increasing attention and criticism from many member states. this may be due to the fact that the number of applicants to the european commission has increased in recent years, partly because of the increase in accidents and partly because the current rules are not sufficiently clear, i.e. the wording of the regulation on accidents of this type is ambiguous. for example, it is not clearly defined which disaster qualifies for aid when applications are submitted under the exceptional rules applicable to exceptional regional disasters. in order to avoid further discontent between the parties, it is necessary to define clearly and precisely the concept of disaster, by establishing common criteria for assessing the extent of the damage caused and by setting limits which are adapted to take account of the territorial level concerned.
in writing. - i agreed to this. the solidarity fund is important as a key instrument through which the eu can respond to major disasters occurring on the territory of the union or in countries negotiating accession to the eu. despite the positive perception of the fund by the majority of eu citizens, it is necessary to improve its operation to make it more flexible and visible. this would also increase the confidence of eu citizens in the eu. the current duration of the mobilisation of the fund is excessive and needs to be shortened. it is also necessary to improve the efficiency and speed of the administrative procedures necessary to mobilise the fund, which involve the intervention of three eu institutions before approval, thus making the procedures too long and prolonging the time until assistance is provided to the affected member states, and thus not achieving the expected results.
in writing. - i agree with this report. the solidarity fund is one of the best instruments available to the european union. in the light of new needs, the fund should become more flexible and efficient, with a permanent capacity to respond effectively to new challenges. in particular, the funds of the solidarity fund following a natural disaster should be mobilised as quickly as possible and efficiently, and applications for financial assistance should be processed swiftly. the time taken to provide assistance to the population of regions affected by natural disasters should therefore be reduced and bureaucratic procedures simplified. however, it is essential to ensure that new amendments to the regulation do not create additional burdens for the budgets of the union or the member states.
in writing. − the european solidarity fund, established in 2002, is a relief instrument for eu member states or candidate countries affected by natural disasters. over the past decade, certain weaknesses in the fund's operations have become apparent. natural disasters often cause more damage than the solidarity fund can cover, and the process of disbursing aid is complex and time-consuming. this makes the recovery process in the member state more difficult, as funds reach the regions too late. i voted in favour of this report because the proposals contained in it will give the solidarity fund flexibility and allow it to respond more quickly to disasters. the proposed amendments will facilitate the disbursement of aid to the affected countries. only in this way will the solidarity fund be able to remain one of the most important, effective and appreciated union instruments for showing solidarity with its citizens.
in writing. − the report speaks of the changes to the regulation governing the solidarity fund (eusf) that are essential for the operability of the fund. the importance of the eusf is well-known. ever since the creation of the solidarity fund and up until now, eusf has proven to be one of the most successful union instruments and a useful tool to intervene in the event of a disaster. many expectations were placed on that fund but changes in the economic situation of the eu have led to the need to introduce modifications. the regulation governing the eusf has to be adapted to new needs and readjusted to current circumstances in the eu. such changes as mentioned in the report can be very efficient as they will improve the functioning of the fund by simplifying the eusf’s procedures and by increasing the transparency of the criteria used for mobilising the eusf. that is why, after taking into consideration all the aforementioned points, i welcome these changes which will increase the efficiency, transparency and flexibility of the eusf. and i consider them to be important, as they will improve coherence in the eusf’s functioning in order to respond properly in the event of a disaster.
in writing. − i support the proposal to draw up a legislative initiative on a single administrative law, binding on the institutions, bodies, agencies and offices of the european union, with a focus on the administrative procedure and with certain guarantees for businesses and citizens interacting with the eu administration. while most eu institutions and bodies currently use different codes of conduct, a common administrative procedural law will provide an opportunity to strengthen the legitimacy of the eu and protect citizens' rights. the eu institutions must ensure that the matter is dealt with swiftly, transparently and effectively, and i therefore support the proposals made to codify the basic principles of good administration in the new regulation and to establish a procedure to be followed by the eu administration in its dealings with eu citizens and businesses. greater guarantees will increase citizens' confidence in the eu administration and, in the process, in the european union as a whole.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to promote transparency and accountability and to increase citizens' confidence in the administration of the european union. as early as 23 march 2010, the legal affairs committee set up an eu administrative law working party, thus aiming to assess the eu's administrative law. the aim of the evaluation is to give greater attention to the administrative procedure and to provide the necessary safeguards for businesses and citizens dealing directly with the union administration. it is worth noting that this eu right of administrative procedure would provide citizens and legal persons with more legal certainty, in other words clearer rules, when dealing with the union administration. this could be achieved by clearly defining, by codifying general principles of administration, the basic rules which should underpin the union's administrative activities. it should be noted that these rules should, in particular, promote transparency and accountability and increase citizens' confidence in the eu administration.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. as the eu's remit expands, citizens increasingly come into direct contact with the eu administration and are not always guaranteed the relevant procedural rights they could exercise against the administration if they were to need to. administrative procedural law offers the possibility of strengthening the legitimacy of the union and of conferring on citizens and legal persons clearer rights and greater legal certainty in their dealings with the union administration. the proposed code would therefore help to remove the ambiguities created by the fact that most union institutions and bodies currently have their own different codes at the same time. it would ensure that the institutions and bodies apply the same basic principles in their dealings with citizens and that they emphasise the importance of these principles to both citizens and officials.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. in particular, coherent and comprehensive sets of codified administrative law rules must be developed at eu level. this will provide an effective 'safety net' for all eu businesses and citizens. the new regulation should give special importance to the principles of good and sound administration and should set clear minimum quality standards and procedural guarantees. i believe that the new code will ensure a high level of transparency, efficiency, speed of handling and enhance citizens' trust in the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a law on informing and consulting employees in the context of company restructuring. due to the global economic crisis of 2008, restructuring is becoming an increasingly common practice among companies. at present, national legislation governing the liability of employers towards their employees in the context of restructuring is very different, and i therefore agree that it is necessary to introduce legislation at european level. the restructuring of enterprises must avoid mass redundancies and the decline of entire regions or industries. during the restructuring process, all stakeholders should be informed, including the explanation of the restructuring and the circumstances underlying it, and the employees' representatives should be involved in the process. i agree that appropriate information measures should be taken before the planned restructuring and that vocational retraining courses should be organised as a matter of urgency. i also support that firms should plan for redundancies as a last resort.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because restructuring would ease the changes experienced by workers and businesses as a result of overcapacity, modernisation and structural adjustment. as the annual growth survey shows, "only by offering lower prices than competitors, and without providing good products, methods and services, it can be difficult to succeed in global markets". it is therefore necessary to re-launch the dialogue with the social partners, as this can redistribute resources to new sectors and open up new opportunities for workers (when their jobs are at risk). the european restructuring framework could thus help to create a comprehensive environment of mutual trust. it is important to note that the commission sought specific advice on how to further develop policy in this area. on 17 january 2012, it published a green paper on restructuring and anticipation of change. what can we learn from recent experience? recognising that technological change and innovation can force companies and workers to develop adaptation strategies. however, it is also believed that innovation, combined with research and education, can be an effective way for europe to emerge from the crisis. only a strong social dialogue based on mutual trust and shared responsibility would ensure that the interests of enterprises in terms of competitiveness and sustainability and the interests of their employees in terms of social and employment conditions, health and working conditions are properly protected.
in writing. − i have supported this proposal as it is widely recognised that any restructuring process, especially one of wider scope and significant impact, should inform stakeholders, giving an explanation of the restructuring and the circumstances underlying it. the measures to be taken to achieve the objectives, the justification for the choice and other options must also be provided, subject to full and comprehensive involvement of the employees' representatives at all levels of the procedure, which requires preparation to take place in advance, giving the stakeholders the opportunity to prepare for consultation before the company's decision is taken. this proposal aims to promote and facilitate information and consultation in the context of economic change and to improve the way in which undertakings, workers' representatives, public authorities and other stakeholders, taking into account the different responsibilities of each of them at different stages of restructuring, plan, prepare and manage restructuring of undertakings in a socially and environmentally responsible manner throughout the union.
in writing. − in particular, a mechanism must be established to prevent any kind of abuse and to reduce the negative impact of the restructuring process. it should be noted that this process has a particularly negative impact not only on the dismissed but also on the existing employees, which requires not only social but also psychological support. it should be noted that any restructuring process must be preceded by an appropriate preparatory process. it is essential that all relevant stakeholders are properly informed and actively involved in this process. it is also necessary to implement measures to avoid mass redundancies and the decline of entire regions.
in writing. − the communication on restructuring and the return to human capital is very timely in the face of the economic crisis. and while restructuring is a normal part of business development, it also has its painful side. for example, last year 274 businesses were restructured in the eu and 74 000 people lost their jobs. it is therefore essential that employees are informed in good time of the forthcoming restructuring of the company and that the public authorities assess in advance the impact of the restructuring on the region as a whole. such social dialogue between the public authorities, the management of the company and the trade unions of the employees would have facilitated the consequences of the restructuring. sometimes all the employees of a family work in the same company undergoing restructuring and all of them may lose their jobs at the same time. when unemployed in their home country, they often move to the uk, sweden or germany, the netherlands, france, etc. for any job. the loss of skilled workers and the countries that are experiencing the most painful economic crisis may face another skilled human resource crisis in the future. it is therefore essential to ensure in a timely manner that human capital is not demotivized after corporate restructuring and that people remain to live and work in their own country. in the future, therefore, i believe that at least minimum standards of protection for workers should be established at eu level in order to ensure that workers have basic social protection, as this is now a matter for the member states alone.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the eu strategy for the horn of africa. the security situation on the somali peninsula is an important issue at both international and european level. the movement of persons of somali origin into the eu and the existence of terrorist organisations, often financed by piracy and kidnapping, pose a threat of international terrorism. i welcome the eu strategy on the somali peninsula, which aims to better coordinate eu external action in this strategic region, to ensure security, to consolidate the rule of law. the aim is to build democratic institutions, promote economic growth and reduce poverty, and support regional political and economic cooperation. i support the proposals to invest more resources in igad (the instrument for enhancing cooperation, integration and security at regional level) to support effective political dialogue in all states participating in the instrument. it is necessary to promote the response capacity of the african union institutions in the field of crisis management. i support the proposal to extend the mandate of operation atlanta (to combat piracy and enhance maritime security off the coast of somalia) by providing for appropriate funding and patrol vessels. it is also important to support agriculture, animal husbandry and programmes that provide access to water.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the somali peninsula is one of the poorest regions in the world, with millions of people at risk of famine. it is important to note that the region has been the scene of several rebellions, of constant piracy along the coasts, and of many other conflicts. it is clear that sustainable development cannot be achieved in an environment of unstable governance, and poverty and underdevelopment are conflict-driven factors that affect the security of neighbouring countries and the continent as a whole. the european union is therefore working with the african union intergovernmental development authority and other national efforts to effectively break the cycle of insecurity, instability, poverty and mismanagement. it could be argued that there is no quick solution to the instability in the country, and that a lasting and promising peace could be achieved on the basis of responsible and strong democratic institutions, the rule of law and respect for human rights. extremism and insurgency are known to be a consequence of poverty and hunger, and it is therefore essential that the eu and other organisations continue to provide independent and impartial humanitarian assistance and pursue further actions in the peace and resilience initiative.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. it is noted that the political instability and ongoing conflicts in the region have destroyed almost all prospects for sustainable economic development in the region. the instability in the region poses a growing threat not only to the security of its peoples but also to the rest of the world. it is worth noting that in implementing measures to strengthen security in the region and to combat terrorism and piracy, we must first of all aim at eradicating poverty in the region. the eu should play an active role in supporting the well-being of the people of the somali peninsula and in helping them to move out of poverty and towards self-sustaining economic growth. i believe that it is necessary to promote respect for constitutional norms and to make greater efforts in the areas of institution building, democratic consolidation and democratisation.
in writing. − the horn of africa is one of the poorest regions in the world. the strategic framework for the horn of africa is a chance for the region to achieve peace, stability and prosperity. its goal is to build strong political structures and contribute to conflict resolution. in addition, the horn of africa is of high geostrategic importance for the eu. political stability in this region has greater impact on europe. i voted in favour of this report, because the strategy on the horn of africa reinforces the eu’s response to the lack of stable political, democratic, social and economic conditions for the people in the region (especially for the young), tackles security concerns, and consolidates peace, the rule of law and respect for human rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because genetic resources are one of the most important factors for the survival of species (and the recovery of ecosystems). the loss of genetic diversity, which is accompanied by the loss of biodiversity, is a major challenge for humanity. in this regard, bio-piracy has become a major problem for developing countries. it is important to note that although there is no common definition of bio-piracy, the term is generally used to describe situations where biological resources are taken from local communities or indigenous peoples and patented, and the profits derived from them do not benefit the communities in which those resources originated, which discovered their special properties and exploited them. in this context, it is important to ratify the nagoya protocol as an important instrument in the fight against biological piracy, to restore fairness through the exchange of genetic resources. only in this way will a clear and coherent system of property rights be established.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the protection and conservation of genetic diversity is an important issue in the pursuit of the millennium development goals. genetic resources are of particular importance for sustainable agriculture and food security. genetic diversity is also one of the most important factors for species survival and ecosystem recovery. the loss of genetic diversity, which is therefore accompanied by the loss of biodiversity, is a major challenge for humanity. although genetic diversity is vital for human survival, it is being lost at an alarming rate. such loss of diversity raises new problems for owners and users of genetic resources. the holders are usually the most biodiverse developing countries, while the users are usually developed countries. in this regard, bio-piracy has become a major problem for developing countries. although there is no common definition of bio-piracy, the term is generally used to describe situations where biological resources are taken from local communities or indigenous peoples and patented, and the profits derived from them do not benefit the communities in which those resources originated, which discovered their special properties and exploited them. it therefore calls for the urgent ratification of the nagoya protocol as an important instrument to combat bio-piracy and to restore fairness and justice in the exchange of genetic resources.
in writing. − while sustainable development and aid to third countries are important objectives and principles of the eu's functioning, i would like to stress that the principle of environmental integration must not be forgotten in their implementation. one of the elements of this principle is food safety and the proper traceability of products, which unfortunately is not possible without ensuring adequate protection of plant origin.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the ever-increasing illegal exploitation of genetic resources and bio-piracy require more effective mechanisms to combat them at eu level. in particular, i support the proposal to introduce mandatory requirements for the disclosure of the origin of genetic resources in patent procedures. this will create an effective control mechanism and the possibility to verify that genetic resources have been legally acquired. transparency and legal clarity will also be ensured for resource providers, inventors and investors. it is also essential to ensure access to genetic resources and to restore their fair and equitable exchange. i think that more attention should be paid to the dominance of industrial seeds on the market, which is having a negative impact on the seeds of traditional varieties.
in writing. − the protection of genetic diversity, the preservation of genetic diversity are key words in the achievement of the millennium development goals. genetic diversity is one of the most important drivers of the regeneration of species and ecosystems as a whole, and the irreversible loss of genetic diversity associated with biodiversity loss is therefore a major challenge for humanity. although genetic diversity is vital for human survival, it is being lost at an alarming rate. such loss of diversity raises new problems for owners and users of genetic resources. today, the largest share of genetic resources is held by developing countries with high biodiversity. biopiracy has become a major problem in developing countries. although there is no common definition of bio-piracy, the term is generally used to describe situations where biological resources or folk medicine recipes are taken from local communities and patented, and then used for profit by pharmacists or the cosmetics industry, with the resulting profits not benefiting the communities in which the resources were discovered. the rapid ratification of the nagoya protocol in the eu member states and beyond is therefore essential. we need a credible countermeasure to bio-piracy, to restore the proper exchange of genetic resources. i am pleased that lithuania is one of the first eu countries to have ratified the nagoya protocol.
the idea of a single europe, united in a community of equal states, is more relevant today than ever. we can't pretend not to see this. otherwise, we may face a time when our common ambition to be a strong, independent and distinctive community will be divided by individual aspirations to be stronger than others. we cannot create a community of equal and more equal states. it's a short enough walk. in the face of economic and political turmoil, accompanied by the constant unemployment that accompanies it, we are unable to agree on important issues such as how and which way europe should go. only free, equal, strong and independent national states are the foundation of a strong european union. and you can be sure that the more talk there is about federalism and more centralization, the more negative public sentiment there will be.
i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur on this very important report. since the beginning of the crisis, there has been talk of the largely uncontrolled activities of credit rating agencies and their enormous and often, as we have seen, destructive influence not only on the borrowing prospects of member states but also on their long-term economic growth and the future development of individual countries. it is good to see that the conclusion is being reached that it is necessary to have a rating agency of its own and to improve it. today, i think there is a significant step forward in terms of greater scrutiny of credit rating agencies, transparency of their operations, and the definition of principles and standards. i hope that in the future this will also lead to the creation of a european union-wide credit rating agency, which would bring some benefits not only to the financial system of the european union but also to the rated member states, and on the basis of the data collected, some future forecasts could be made.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the irish presidency of the european union for this six-month period is not new for this country. but today, the country holding the seventh presidency will probably do so for the first time in the face of a particularly difficult political and economic situation in the community itself. the task ahead is extremely difficult and unrewarding: reaching agreement on a long-term community budget. i believe that this is the main objective of this presidency and i wish it every success in achieving it. it is also very important for lithuania, whose citizens i represent here. because what ireland will not do, lithuania will have to do as the next presidency. i particularly support the irish presidency of the european union in its focus on this priority - the recovery of an economy geared to the well-being of people. this is very much in line with both the lithuanian national and european priorities of the presidency of the european union, as without the well-being of citizens there will be no european union leadership in global politics.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations. i think it is important to recast the directive on the approximation of the already existing legislative and administrative provisions on the classification, packaging and labelling for such preparations. it would ensure legal continuity within the sectoral framework and would also close gaps that might exist regarding confidentiality and intellectual property rights protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a recast of the dangerous products directive (dpd) (1999/45/ec). the directive on the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations is proposed to be codified without changing its substance in order to bring its provisions into line with the newly-entering lisbon treaty. the directive sets out the criteria for determining whether a substance is classified appropriately. the classification reflects the type and severity of the hazard posed by the substance, i.e. the potential harm to humans and the environment. as all the amendments to the new gpa are based on the need to replace old provisions that are no longer necessary with new ones in order to ensure their clarity and precision, i support this proposal.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the dangerous products directive regulates the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous products, i.e. mixtures or solutions of two or more substances. a recast of this directive on dangerous preparations has been proposed in order to codify the corrective acts and to align the provisions relating to the commission's power to adopt delegated and implementing acts with the treaty of lisbon. all the amendments made to the new version of the directive are based on the need to update the proposal in line with the treaty of lisbon and to replace old provisions which are no longer necessary with new ones, while ensuring clarity and precision of the applicable provisions.
in writing. − voting in favour of this report is predominantly due to the offers of regulations concerning the three main elements involved with preparations: classification, packaging and labelling. it is important to ensure the safety of both our health and our environment, and correctly classifying and labelling solutions would further ensure safety in these fields, as would packaging these solutions with extreme care under the guidelines set forth in the legislation, so that during transport all necessary precautions are met without any consequences.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1967/2006 on the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean sea, in order to bring its provisions into line with the newly-entering treaty of lisbon. in view of the deteriorating state of some fish stocks in the mediterranean, the regulation aims to ensure the conservation and sustainable exploitation of the stocks. as the protection of fish stocks is the main objective of the regulation, i support the proposal to include the word 'protection' in the title of the regulation.
in writing. - i support this resolution. i believe that these amendments, which lay down procedural provisions for the exercise of the commission's powers, will strengthen sustainable fishing in the region. the delegated and implementing measures provided to the commission will help to establish more effective mechanisms for the management of sustainable use of resources and thus contribute to improving the use of living water resources and the protection of vulnerable habitats.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusion of the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol, which specifies measures which need to be taken in the event of damage by living modified organisms that adversely affect the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, taking also into account risks to human health. living modified organisms (lmos) resulting from modern biotechnology might move from one country to another. therefore, the cartagena protocol establishes an advance informed agreement (aia) procedure for ensuring that countries are provided with the information necessary to make informed decisions before agreeing to the import of such organisms into their territory. i agree with the rapporteur that the nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol will greatly contribute to achieving the objectives of the convention on biological biodiversity and of the cartagena protocol on biosafety. moreover, this supplementary protocol will specifically address liability and compensation for damage to biodiversity resulting from lmos. now it is important that all eu member states sign and swiftly ratify this supplementary protocol.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because the nagoya and kuala lumpur additional protocol on liability and compensation will help to achieve the objectives of the convention on biological diversity and the cartagena protocol on biosafety. the cartagena protocol on biosafety of the convention on biological diversity is an international treaty that regulates the movement of living modified organisms produced by modern technology from one country to another. the protocol establishes a prior informed consent procedure to ensure that parties are provided with the information necessary to make an informed decision before agreeing to allow the introduction of those organisms into their territory. the biosafety clearing-house is established under this protocol to facilitate the exchange of information on living modified organisms and to assist the parties in the implementation of the protocol. the rapporteur of the european parliament supports the council decision approving, on behalf of the european union, the nagoya and kuala lumpur additional protocol on liability and compensation in matters falling within the union's competence. it is also welcome that the additional protocol has been signed by a majority of member states. the european parliament therefore calls on them to ratify it swiftly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as the cartagena biosafety protocol to the convention on biological diversity is an international treaty regulating the movement of living modified organisms produced by modern technology from one country to another. the protocol establishes a prior informed consent procedure to ensure that parties are provided with the information necessary to make an informed decision before agreeing to allow the introduction of those organisms into their territory. the protocol refers to the precautionary principle and reaffirms the precautionary provisions contained in the rio declaration on environment and development. the biosafety clearing-house is established under this protocol to facilitate the exchange of information on living modified organisms and to assist the parties in the implementation of the protocol. the provisions of the eu cartagena protocol on biosafety are incorporated into eu biosafety legislation. they enshrine the precautionary principle as a fundamental principle. the provisions on liability of the nagoya and kuala lumpur additional protocol are incorporated into directive 2004/35/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 21 april 2004 on environmental liability for the prevention and remedying of environmental damage, which establishes a 'polluter pays' system for environmental damage.
in writing. − today, when the european union and the member states have not yet fully decided on the regulation of the introduction and use of living modified organisms and related products, it is important to ensure that a mechanism is in place for the identification and compensation of damage caused by the movement of such organisms. i therefore support the eu's accession to the international agreements necessary to establish such mechanisms.
in writing. − we must do everything we can to contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity. to this end, each member state should ratify the additional protocol on liability and reparation in matters falling within the union's competence as a matter of urgency. the eu must set high standards of environmental protection. it is essential to establish an effective compensation mechanism by regulating in detail not only environmental restoration but also preventive and compensatory measures.
in writing. − when considering living modified organisms (lmos) and biotechnology, it is of utmost importance to maintain strict guidelines for the importation and exportation of such. a clear structure of trade formality is necessary as well as the assurance that all precautions have been taken before agreeing to the importation of lmos and biotechnology. another important aspect of the precautions outlined in this report is the ability to channel liability if damage is caused during the transaction. this is exhibited in the liability and redress aspect of this legislation. while the protocol mainly directs attention to administration procedures and requirements, it also concerns human health and biodiversity. to have both of these elements outlined in the guidelines for the legislation is extremely important during the implementation of the protocol. therefore this legislation covers the most essential elements concerning biosafety. i voted in favour of this report, because it helps further ensure biosafety among the eu’s countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because comprehensive measures are needed to continue to address the problems facing many eu member states, which are having a negative impact on social and economic development and political stability. it is worth noting that the effects of the economic and banking crisis have not reduced the euro area's public debt to gdp ratio over the recent period, from 86,2% in the first quarter of 2011 to 88,2% in the first quarter of 2012. also, current problems such as high youth unemployment can have serious implications for future economic growth and it is therefore necessary to take concrete measures to address the problems now. in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, member states need to implement innovation policies, provide more flexibility and security in the labour market (flexicurity), improve training programmes, reduce youth unemployment (by better matching youth qualifications with labour demand), create a more favourable environment for new business creation and take other similar measures to ensure further economic development and political stability. while these proposals cannot overcome the effects of the crisis all at once, they should aim to increase the credibility of fiscal adjustment and to reduce its short-term impact on growth, which in the longer term would also help to develop better policy frameworks.
in writing. − the economic, financial and banking crisis has not abated and has shown that public finance problems are having a negative impact on socioeconomic development and political stability. the crisis cannot be overcome by recent reforms of the eu's economic and budgetary management system alone. i voted in favour, as comprehensive measures are needed to address the problem of excessive macroeconomic imbalances in a symmetrical way and to improve the overall level of social and economic convergence and solidarity in the economic and monetary union. a credible commitment to growth-friendly consolidation measures is a prerequisite for a sustainable solution to the excessive debt and deficit problems of many euro area member states.
in writing. − i support this resolution because the long-term sustainability of public and private finances is a prerequisite for stability and growth. most member states face significant difficulties in restoring the sustainability of public finances. particular attention shall be paid to long-term fiscal consolidation strategies. it is also essential to ensure that consolidation of public finances is not carried out at the expense of social security and public service systems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution because the eu's regulation, supervision and supervision of financial markets is far from perfect. credit rating agencies are now supervised in the european union by a new european securities and markets authority (esma) which can punish them for breaching the rules. i would recall that the european parliament already called for a stronger regulatory framework in its resolution of june 2011 and stressed the need to reduce the burden placed on credit rating agencies. this european parliament resolution is an attempt to strengthen the regulation and supervision of eu financial markets by proposing amendments and additions to the rules on the operation and supervision of credit rating agencies. i think that both the eu and lithuania need this, because the consequences of the published ratings have been and can be very painful, with losses in the millions of euros. in the past, the publication of credit ratings has sometimes, without any serious basis or in the interests of anyone, damaged the credibility not only of individual investors but also of states. in this resolution, the european parliament seeks to avoid as much as possible conflicts of interest in credit rating agencies and the ratings they publish, so that national credit ratings are published more frequently than they are now, at least twice a year. in addition, credit agencies are required to be more transparent in their activities. never again should the timing and manner of disclosure be subject to the unilateral decisions of credit rating agencies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to tighten the regulation of credit rating agencies, whose decisions determine the economic and political prospects of countries and the cost of borrowing on the international credit market. the main objective of the proposal is to reduce excessive interference by market participants in the field of credit ratings, to address conflicts of interest and to increase the transparency and competitiveness of the work of credit rating agencies. i support the proposals set out for investors to use eu internal ratings, with less reliance on external credit rating agencies, and for issuers of structured finance instruments to obtain credit ratings from two different agencies. i also agree that persons holding more than 10% of the capital of an agency should not hold 10% or more of the capital of a rated entity and that no member or shareholder of a rating agency should hold more than 5% of the shares of another agency. it is also necessary to set stricter requirements on the timing of the publication of national ratings, to improve the reasoning behind the publication of ratings by agencies and to avoid the publication of direct policy recommendations to member states. it is important that investors have the possibility to hold a credit rating agency liable for any damage suffered as a result of a breach of rules that has affected the rating outcome.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the activities of credit rating agencies have a significant impact on the behaviour of economic and financial actors and on the functioning of public institutions. for its part, the european parliament adopted a legislative resolution in june 2011 (based on the commission communication of june 2010) calling for a strengthened regulatory framework and highlighting the need to reduce over-reliance on credit rating agencies. the proposal for a regulation (com ((2011) 0747)) amending regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 states that the rules governing sovereign credit ratings in any form should be strengthened in order to improve the quality of such ratings. i think that most of the things proposed are very important and most of them can be accepted in principle, but some provisions still need to be clarified and strengthened to avoid undesirable consequences in the implementation of these measures.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the activities of credit rating agencies have a significant impact on the behaviour of economic and financial actors and on the functioning of public institutions. i voted in favour of this proposal because it should help to put credit rating agencies back in their rightful place. this means that their ratings should be treated as information to be taken into account, but not that the agencies themselves should have a special status or automatically exert a procyclical influence detrimental to the activities of economic and financial actors and public institutions. never again should the timing and manner of disclosure be subject to the decisions of unilateral credit rating agencies, even when the information provided is not substantially new or original, in particular as regards the state and prospects of the public sector.
in writing. − these amendments to the regulation will help to limit the influence of credit rating agencies on the behaviour of economic and financial actors and will introduce new transparency requirements. i believe that it is appropriate to extend the scope of the rating rules in order to increase the scrutiny of their operation. in particular, very strict restrictions on the establishment and publication of sovereign credit ratings should be imposed. this will create favourable conditions for improving the quality of sovereign credit ratings. in addition, the commission should adopt as soon as possible a decision on the establishment of an independent european credit rating agency to carry out credit assessments of sovereign debt.
in writing. − governments are increasingly dependent on the credit rating of sovereign debt issued by rating agencies. however, the liability of these institutions has not been properly controlled to date. the legislative gaps have had a negative impact on national economies. i therefore agree with the view that there is a need for better regulation and supervision of the financial services market. i voted in favour of this report because the european commission and the rapporteur of the european parliament have put forward innovative proposals on the civil liability of credit rating agencies and the mandatory rotation requirement. the envisaged measures will ensure greater transparency of rating methodologies and increase competitiveness in the market for credit rating agencies, which is currently dominated by a small number of large agencies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to amend directive 2009/65/ec on the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (ucits) and directive 2011/61/eu on alternative investment fund managers (aifs). the regulation on credit rating agencies (cras) requires these agencies to adhere to strict conduct of business rules in order to mitigate potential conflicts of interest and to ensure a high level of quality and transparency in ratings. however, the risk that financial market participants, including ucits and aifs, may rely too heavily on credit ratings has not been sufficiently addressed in the cra regulation. i therefore support the proposals put forward to address this issue by improving the regulatory framework for agencies.
in writing. - i voted for this document. due to the impact of the financial crisis, investors, including ucits and aifs, rely too heavily on credit ratings when investing in debt instruments and do not necessarily assess the creditworthiness of the issuers of such debt instruments themselves. therefore, in order to improve the quality of the investments of ucits and aifs and thus to protect the investors of those funds, it is appropriate to require ucits and aif managers to avoid automatically relying solely on external credit ratings when assessing the risk associated with the investments of ucits and aifs they manage. it is therefore proposed to improve the internal risk management processes and systems of ucits and aifms and to follow a general principle to avoid over-reliance on external credit ratings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is necessary to establish strict regulatory rules to protect investors and markets from potential shortcomings. i believe that these amendments will help to ensure that external credit ratings are not used as the main criteria for assessing the assets of csds. in particular, a strict regulatory mechanism should be established to ensure that those entities do not rely unconditionally on credit ratings. they should themselves assess the opinions of credit rating agencies and take their own decisions, as a credit rating is only an opinion on relative credit risk.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution which is intended to update the previous plan for cod stocks and fisheries exploiting these stocks. the legal framework introduced by the lisbon treaty ensures parliament’s presence in this important decision-making process. having this opportunity, we, the members of the european parliament, must ensure that cod stocks in the baltic sea are exploited in a sustainable manner, taking into account economic, social and environmental concerns. it is also important to stress that, if finally adopted, the new regulation would allow small-scale fisheries to fish cod during the closed season if a rise in cod stocks in the baltic sea were observed by experts. it would improve the economic situation of small-scale fisheries in the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to amend council regulation (ec) no 1098/2007 of 18 september 2007 establishing a multiannual plan for cod stocks and the fishing opportunities available in the baltic sea. the main objective of this plan is to ensure the sustainable exploitation of the cod stock in the baltic sea by setting tacs. it is important to ensure that the plan is kept up to date with the latest scientific advice as science progresses. the proposed amendments are designed to ease the restrictions on cod fishing in the baltic sea, as the baltic sea stocks are slowly recovering, according to statistics. i support the proposals that are being put forward to allow small-scale fisheries to catch cod in the baltic sea in the summer, i.e. during the prohibition season. the coastal cod fishery in summer will not have a negative impact on these fish, which do not spawn far from the coast.
in writing. - i voted for this plan. whereas the plan ensures the maximum sustainable exploitation of the cod stock concerned, consistent with the maximum sustainable level of fishing, by progressively reducing fishing mortality rates;
in writing. − it is essential to ensure that the cod stocks in the baltic sea continue to be exploited under sustainable economic, environmental and social conditions. given that the multiannual plan for cod stocks in the baltic sea is the main issue of the regulation, it is necessary to extend the validity of that plan and to ensure stable fishing opportunities based on the best scientific advice. in adopting these amendments, we need to ensure that each requirement is based on scientific information and not on political choice. it is also essential to allow the commission to react more quickly to existing situations and to empower it to address certain issues by means of delegated acts. i believe that small fisheries should be allowed to fish for cod during the prohibition season, especially during the summer months, without adversely affecting cod farming and their populations during the spawning season.
in writing. − i welcome the rapporteur's major contribution to making the provisions of the regulation more flexible for baltic fisheries. the aim of this proposal is to bring the multiannual cod fishing plan into line with the lisbon treaty. this multiannual plan will implement the recovery of cod stocks in the baltic sea, improve the situation of fishermen in the baltic region and contribute to the development objectives of the baltic region. the multiannual plan is the most important issue in this regulation, and i therefore support the amendments that the stecf and the baltic sea advisory council should necessarily be included in the evaluation process of the multiannual plan. the document contains amendments of benefit to baltic fishermen, allowing small-scale farms to fish for cod during the closed season, especially in the summer months, without adversely affecting cod stocks before spawning and cod stocks spawning, as cod spawning takes place in the deep baltic sea, far from the coast. this can be of particular economic importance for fisheries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation amending regulation no 850/98 on the conservation of fishery resources through the introduction of technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms. these measures are one of the key aspects of the regional fisheries management approach and play a key role in the decision-making process on catch size. the aim of this proposal is to ensure the continuity of the application of technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms by the end of 2012. i support the proposals for the development of technical measures for specific cases and zones, since they cannot be established as general rules. different measures, adapted to the specificities of each member state, are necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it updates the rules that fishermen must follow to conserve fish stocks and ecosystems. technical measures shall lay down rules on fishing zones and gear used in contravention of the requirements on the allowable amounts and on the catch. these measures provide for minimum landings, minimum mesh sizes, zones and prohibition periods, catch limits, fishing gear to ensure a higher selectivity and measures designed to protect the marine environment. the current commission proposal aims to extend the rules on technical measures for a further transitional period until the adoption of a regional framework for technical measures under the cfp. the current proposal for technical measures should not preclude decisions on landing obligations to be undertaken under the cfp basic regulation, and the temporary nature of the legislation should be clearly linked to the envisaged regional scheme of technical conservation measures after the adoption of the new cfp. the technical measures for specific cases and zones need to be carefully developed and cannot be seen as general rules that could be applied in the same way to all member states.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as the extension of the technical rules during the transitional period is necessary to ensure sustainable fishing, the best management of the resources and to prevent an increase in the amount of fish being released into the sea. this will facilitate the development of a new system of technical measures. it should be noted that the consequences of overfishing can be very serious for the safety and lives of fishermen. in this context, the new system should be developed taking into account the variability of fisheries management and scientific advice. only by implementing these measures will sustainable fishing and the appropriate protection of ecosystems be ensured.
in writing. − i support the proposal that the ranking of candidates who are elected unanimously without a vote be determined by secret ballot. in particular, we must work together to ensure that the european parliament's powers are progressively extended and that it properly fulfils its primary objective of representing the interests of the citizens of the european union and meeting the expectations of all eu citizens. it is also essential that the european union be more democratic and more transparent. in order to ensure the smooth and efficient functioning of parliament, the rules of procedure must be adapted to parliament's practice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the youth guarantee. i am pleased that the european parliament has endorsed this proposal from the council and the commission, as it will be a measure to ensure that all young eu citizens and legal residents under the age of 25 and under the age of 30 who have recently completed higher education receive a quality job, continuing education or traineeship offer within four months of becoming unemployed or leaving formal education. i agree with the rapporteur that the effective implementation of the 'youth guarantee' initiatives requires close cooperation between the commission and the member states, as well as cooperation at national level between the social partners, local and regional authorities, public and private employment services, and local and regional education and vocational training institutions. this will be one of the means of combating the consequences of the economic crisis and of overcoming the high unemployment rate, which is unprecedented in the eu.
in writing. - i voted for the youth guarantee. today, youth unemployment in the european union stands at 23.7% (5.68 million young people), while in lithuania, about 24.2% of young people are unemployed. the main objective of the youth guarantee is to ensure that no young eu citizen is left without a job, education or traineeship. the aim is to ensure that persons under 25 and those under 30 with a higher education qualification receive a quality job, training or traineeship offer no later than four months after the date of their graduation or unemployment. i support the proposal to introduce this scheme in all eu member states with the support of the european social fund and other eu funds. i agree that this initiative should be complemented by a quality assurance system to ensure that education and workplaces provide adequate remuneration, good working conditions and health and safety standards. as the level of preparedness of the countries to adopt the 'youth guarantee' initiative varies, the commission should support those member states that are experiencing financial difficulties. i support calls on the commission to monitor closely the implementation of the youth guarantee and, where appropriate, to identify countries that do not comply.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution and welcome the european commission's 'youth guarantee' initiative, which will ensure that young people are given the opportunity to start work, study or do an internship no later than four months after their graduation or unemployment. however, i would urge the commission to provide the member states with financial support as soon as possible to implement this programme in the member states. the effectiveness of the 'youth guarantee' programmes requires close cooperation between the commission and the member states, the national (sectoral) social partners, local and regional authorities, employment services, local and regional education and training institutions and other relevant actors. moreover, if member states were to succeed in restructuring the standards of education and vocational training for young people, this would also significantly increase the opportunities for young people to enter employment and to choose careers. the current youth employment situation is tragic in most member states of the european union, but not all countries are equally prepared to adopt the 'youth guarantee' programme. particular support should be given to those member states which are experiencing financial difficulties or/and are undergoing austerity measures in their countries.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. the economic crisis that has hit has led to a significant increase in unemployment, especially among young people, to unprecedented levels. the crisis has led to the employment of young people in precarious employment conditions - short-term contracts, part-time contracts, etc. the commission therefore wanted a 'youth guarantee' initiative in its youth employment package. in such a case, young people should first be given a personalised assessment of their needs and then be provided with tailor-made and appropriate services. research shows that youth unemployment often leaves long-term scars such as an increased risk of future unemployment and persistent social exclusion. member states should therefore make greater efforts to increase youth employment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is the duty and responsibility of every state to help young people to become established in life, because the well-being of a country depends on how young people feel and settle in their homeland. attention should be paid to the fact that young people are one of the most vulnerable groups in society, facing a very complex and different social environment. youth unemployment is a major european problem, driving emigration and other negative consequences. most member states keep count of the number of young people who go abroad each year to look for work as a source of livelihood, without any hope of finding it in their parents' land. in view of the high level of youth unemployment and social exclusion, close cooperation between the commission and the member states is necessary. any measure and initiative envisaged should be tailored to the needs of young people. first, more opportunities for job offers or further training should be provided. it is essential to ensure that young people who have completed higher education receive a quality job, continuing education or traineeship offer within four months of becoming unemployed or leaving formal education, as young people have been hit hardest by the economic crisis.
in writing. − youth unemployment is currently very high in the european union, with one in two young people in some countries not in employment or training. the economic crisis has made things even more difficult. the current employment problem is not limited to young people without a higher education, but also includes young people with a bachelor's, master's and doctoral degree. statistics show that one in five of the unemployed has never had a job, and three quarters are under the age of 25. failure to help young people find work is a huge potential loss for eu countries. i voted in favour of this resolution because it clearly emphasises the need to enable young people who have completed their education to find employment, to undertake an apprenticeship or to improve their qualifications in other ways. the resolution proposes that all eu countries adopt the 'youth guarantee' programme proposed by the social democrats, under which states would commit to giving every young person the opportunity to develop and work. we must ensure that the current generation of young people does not become a lost generation.
in writing. − the consequences of the financial and economic crisis and the recession have led to a dramatic impact on the situation of young people seeking for a job. unemployment amongst young people is hitting peaks not seen for almost 20 years and the risk of poverty and social exclusion amongst this population group is constantly growing. the situation is worrying in lithuania. lithuania is largely hit by the economic crisis; youth unemployment in lithuania has risen from 13% to 27.5% – that is more than double the country’s unemployment rate for its total workforce. a youth guarantee can provide lithuania with the tools to overcome this trend and reform education and training standards for young people. introducing a youth guarantee can help to redress the situation of youth unemployment and can become a strong instrument for a change in tackling it. i welcome this initiative and i am convinced that promoting exchanges of good practices among member states and following these practices can unite member states in their efforts to increase youth employment. i believe that lithuania will take a proactive approach in this regard and will make employment of young people a top priority in its policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on strengthening the role of eu cohesion policy in the implementation of the new european energy policy. the objective of european energy policy is to ensure security of energy supply, sustainability, competitiveness, diversification of energy sources and affordability for consumers. energy investment in the eu is part of the cohesion policy, which aims at smart and sustainable growth and the transition to a low-carbon economy. i support the calls for an eu-wide incentive scheme for renewable energy sources and for administrative capacity building at member state, regional and local levels for the institutions that use eu funding. as the cohesion fund is becoming increasingly difficult to use due to bureaucratic obstacles and lack of clarity, i support the proposal to simplify the rules and procedures for submitting applications and to increase the flexibility of the fund. it is also important to regularly check how cohesion funding is allocated to energy projects and whether projects are effective. i believe that the commission should develop an eu-wide cooperation programme to help improve cooperation between regions that use a lot of eu funds to implement an energy project and those that use little eu funds and to facilitate the sharing of best practices.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the implementation of european energy policy should ensure the security of energy resources, the diversification of energy sources and affordability for end-users. it is clear that, as the current crisis has had a negative impact on europe, strong support for economic, social and territorial cohesion in the eu is needed to address the growing local and regional disparities. european energy projects could contribute to regional development and enhanced cross-border cooperation by helping regions to improve their capacity to manage energy resources. for example, investing in low-carbon and renewable energy sources would boost energy efficiency, regional economic growth and job creation. the european union should act without delay to secure its future energy supply and protect its interests in a given member state. this will only be possible by ensuring the proper implementation of legislation, with a greater focus on the specific characteristics of national and regional markets.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the transition to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth requires support for the transition to low-carbon and energy-efficient technologies in all sectors of the economy. european energy projects could contribute to regional development and enhanced cross-border cooperation, thus helping regions to improve their capacity to manage energy resources. in addition, investments in low-carbon and renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and other measures can boost regional economic growth and job creation.
in writing. −in developing a single eu energy policy and implementing its objectives, it is important to ensure that there are no energy islands in the european union. unfortunately, connecting isolated member states to the eu's electricity or gas transmission and distribution systems requires significant investments that cannot be met by the member states alone. it is therefore essential to ensure support for the eu's cohesion policy and its mechanisms, in such exceptional cases by creating new energy infrastructure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because as energy prices rise, so do local and regional disparities. in this context, it is essential to maintain the eu's cohesion in the implementation of the new energy policy. i believe that the energy projects under way are an integral part of regional development and closer crossborder cooperation, which stimulate regional economic growth. it is essential to ensure that an effectively functioning incentive system for the use of renewable energy sources is widely applied in the eu. support should be given to cities and regions for the implementation of investment projects, with particular attention and financial support for energy efficiency projects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the possibility of issuing stability bonds. the resolution calls on the european commission and the eu member states to explore ways of consolidating national debts and to present a possible plan for their implementation. the proposal aims to prevent abusive debt consolidation and to strengthen the euro area. today, the euro area has a single currency, but it does not have a common bond market or a common budgetary policy. i support the proposal to set up a european debt repayment fund without waiting, and to consider the possibility of amending the eu treaty to legalise the joint issuance of national and, later, european debt securities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a contribution by the european parliament to the eu's general debate on the creation of stability bonds. this measure, which could correct erratic fiscal trends, macroeconomic imbalances, debt levels and ceilings on member states' budgets, would be completely new, as no country in the world has tried to put such a measure into practice. the euro area is in a unique position in this respect, as its member states share a common currency but do not have a common budgetary policy or a common bond market. the prospect of common bonds would be an important signal to financial markets to preserve the integrity of the european monetary union, to help return the economy to stability and to reduce uncertainty, especially if we make progress on eu financial and budgetary integration and surveillance. however, it should be noted that even under the system of issuing general bonds, each member state would have to repay its entire debt and the issue of general bonds would not guarantee the fulfilment of the debt obligations of the member state. in its report, parliament therefore stressed the importance of establishing a proper sequence of actions for the creation of this instrument, as well as the need to draw up a binding action plan similar to the maastricht criteria for the introduction of the single currency. parliament also recommended that the commission emphasise the criteria for withdrawal and accession to the instrument, based on strict fiscal consolidation and budgetary discipline, taking into account the current crisis and the fiscal adjustment applied in some euro area countries.
in writing. - i support this resolution. stability bonds will help to alleviate the sovereign debt crisis, strengthen the euro area financial system and increase financial stability. in addition, member states will be given greater access to sources of refinancing. the temporary european debt relief fund will help to reduce debt to sustainable levels and ensure affordable interest rates. i also support the proposal to introduce euro banknotes in order to protect the member states adequately against illiquidity. in addition, the issuance of a common european debt securities will give member states greater scope for structural reforms. however, in all cases, the implementation of this initiative and the enhancement of financial stability and the effectiveness of monetary policy require the maintenance of the existing market discipline and the high credit quality of the stability bonds.
in writing. mr president the economic partnership agreement between the eastern and southern african states and the european community and its member states is the culmination of many years of negotiations which have not yet been fully concluded. the acp states and the european union have decided to sign new trade agreements in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) to replace the unilateral system of trade preferences favourable to the acp countries. the union's objective in creating the agreement was clear: to integrate the acp countries into the world economy, to create more efficient regional markets operating on a predictable and stable basis and to increase trade, especially with the countries of eastern and southern africa. it is estimated that imports from this part of africa to the eu amount to only around 0,2% of all eu imports. exports, on the other hand, are in the region of eur 4 billion, indicating limited trade opportunities. the conclusion of the agreement does not appear to improve this situation in line with the union's expectations. this is evidenced by the large number of african countries that have withdrawn from the negotiations, as they felt that the agreement would put them in a less advantageous position than they are now. some provisions of the agreement should therefore be reconsidered so that the benefits of trade are long-term for all contracting parties. the agreement should also not limit the country's responsibility for its own development but promote it on the basis of regional integration in africa.
in writing. - i voted yes. europe and iraq share thousands of years of cultural influence and a common history. since 2005, the republic of iraq has held three multiparty elections, a referendum that approved a constitution, laid the foundations for a federal state, and efforts have been made to establish democratic institutions of government, rebuild the country and normalize the situation. on 21 december 2010, all political forces in iraq reached an agreement to form a government of national unity in accordance with the will of the iraqi people as expressed in the elections of 7 march 2010. but the iraqi government has yet to implement this agreement, which is adding to the fragility and division of iraq. the conclusion of the negotiations on the eu-republic of iraq partnership and cooperation agreement has established contractual relations between the two parties. the partnership and cooperation agreement establishes a cooperation council, a cooperation committee and a parliamentary cooperation committee and it is expected that these fora will provide a new impetus to the union's political engagement in iraq at the highest level, through the continuous development of political discussions and the expansion of economic relations with the iraqi authorities at the highest level.
in writing. - i voted yes. i support the recommendations contained in the resolution, particularly in the area of human rights and the strengthening of democracy. i support the call for the basic rights and freedoms of the people in the camps of ashraf and hurriya to be guaranteed, and for them to be provided with humane conditions. these people are protected by international law and the commitment of the iraqi government, and their situation must not be degraded.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. it is a good thing that we finally managed to reach a cooperation agreement with iraq. this agreement is another major step forward in helping the eu to develop a long-term political and economic relationship with iraq and iraq to strengthen democracy, rebuild the country and normalise the situation. it is essential that an inclusive civil society is finally established in the country and that a sense of cohesion and partnership is restored. in this context, particular attention should be paid to the eu's support for the strengthening of democracy and the rule of law in iraq. iraq must ratify the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty without delay and as a matter of urgency and accede to the rome statute of the international criminal court. it is also essential that democratic, adequate and legitimate institutions are established and function in the country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement. this is the first ever agreement between the eu and iraq, consolidating relations between the two countries in many fields. parliament supports this agreement but there are still important issues that must be addressed by iraq – with enhanced eu support in the framework of the new agreement – in its approach to democracy and the rule of law. on the other hand, we, the members of the european parliament, also acknowledged the efforts made by the country, which have led to some significant progress. i support the rapporteur’s view that if our goal is to effectively promote the principles of democracy and freedom, then the best way is to be open to dialogue and this agreement should be a tool to engage in dialogue with iraq. parliament urges the iraqi authorities to pay particular attention to human rights and women’s participation in the post-conflict reconstruction process and at the highest levels of political and economic life, as well as to take the measures required to develop a civil society which can play a full part in the political process, and to encourage an independent media sector.
in writing. - i voted yes. on 23 march 2006, the council authorised the commission to negotiate a trade and cooperation agreement with the republic of iraq. in the eu-iraq negotiations, both sides agreed to strengthen the status of the draft agreement by replacing it with a partnership and cooperation agreement and establishing a cooperation council that would meet regularly at ministerial level. this agreement marks the first contractual relationship between the eu and iraq. it comes at a crucial moment in the years ahead, when iraq will face the challenges of reconstruction and development, when it will need to restore its sovereignty and normalise relations with the international community, to support iraq's transition to democracy. the eu should be actively involved with the iraqi people and their authorities, who will have to deal with many issues, the most important of which is the security and stability of the country. the iraqi security forces are increasing their capability in field operations, but they are hampered by a lack of internal cohesion and a lack of legal basis and democratic control. moreover, although violence is apparently declining, it is still a threatening reality. the risk of a situation spiraling out of control or of a renewed civil war remains, with religious minorities, especially the christian minority, being the most at risk. national reconciliation should therefore be a priority for both iraqi policymakers and the international community. the strengthening of inclusive political and institutional governance in a democratic, federal and pluralistic state based on respect for human rights and the rule of law should be fully supported.
in writing. − i support the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement. the history of the iraqi people in recent decades has been extremely difficult. at this stage, it is crucial to give a positive impetus to the sovereign state. all eu countries recognise the importance of an economically strong and rights-respecting state for all iraqis, regardless of their religion, origin or gender, both for the iraqi people and for the security and stability of the region and beyond. i believe that this agreement contains the prerequisites for developing a meaningful dialogue and cooperation between the contracting parties in the fields of human rights, democracy and the rule of law. i trust that the relevant eu institutions and officials will monitor the situation in this area appropriately. it is important that the iraqi leadership take active action to prevent inter-ethnic strife, protect vulnerable religious communities and ensure adequate protection, rights and freedoms for the most vulnerable groups in society, including refugees and displaced persons.
in writing. − the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement is a historic event. this is a fundamental, solid basis for strengthening and developing the contractual relations between iraq and the eu. it also demonstrates the eu's determination to play a key role in iraq's transition. it is welcome that the conditions will finally be created for a permanent political dialogue and for improved trade relations between the eu and iraq. it is essential that eu cooperation activities, especially in the areas of health, education and employment, be conducted on the basis of the principles of inclusion, transparency and good governance, capacity building and institution building. in addition, technical assistance should be provided on a continuous basis to iraq in order to ensure the sustainability and efficiency of the iraqi economy. i believe that iraq should make greater efforts and without delay to properly implement its international contractual obligations, to establish effective public procurement procedures and to establish an effective and efficient anti-corruption system.
in writing. − the eu and iraq cooperate on dealing with a number of challenges. the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement is an efficient tool in meeting these challenges and facilitating a dialogue with iraq on number of important issues. this agreement presents a comprehensive framework for eu-iraq relations. it includes substantive and wide areas of cooperation and partnership, such as: energy, trade, heath, education, environment, countering terrorism and promoting human rights. i voted in favour of this report, because it emphasises a step forward in deepening dialogue with iraq on multiple issues. the eu holds a key role in supporting the iraqi people. it is particularly essential for ensuring stability and security in the country and for promoting full enjoyment of the rights of iraqi citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because economic partnership agreements (epas) are agreements compatible with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) which aim to promote regional integration through trade development, sustainable growth and poverty reduction, while promoting the gradual integration of african, caribbean and pacific (acp) economies into the world economy. while the current situation in zimbabwe as regards human rights and democracy has improved somewhat, there are still many difficulties in the future arising from the cooperation between the european union and zimbabwe, in particular as regards the implementation of the comprehensive political agreement and the cessation of all forms of persecution and human rights violations. parliament therefore expresses its concern at the continuing abuses of human rights and fundamental freedoms in zimbabwe and calls on the government of zimbabwe to take all necessary measures to ensure that no one is persecuted or intimidated for seeking to resolve human rights issues. the entry into force of the interim economic partnership agreement would therefore be an important step towards strengthening the partnership between the eu and the four african countries concerned under a stable legal framework. it is also important to continue negotiations with a view to reaching a comprehensive agreement aimed at promoting enhanced, open and fair trade, investment and regional integration.
in writing. - i agreed to this. i believe that the provisional entry into force of the economic partnership agreement is an important step towards strengthening the partnership between the eu and the four african countries concerned in the context of a stable legal framework. it is essential to continue negotiations with a view to reaching a comprehensive agreement aimed at promoting enhanced, open and fair trade, investment and regional integration.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. this interim economic partnership agreement is only an interim but a very important step towards a long-term and stable economic partnership and cooperation agreement. in promoting open and fair trade, particular attention should be paid to the labour standards and working conditions of the octs and to the very high social and environmental standards. it is also essential to ensure that trade agreements include mandatory human rights provisions, as respect for human rights is an essential element of development cooperation. i believe that the commission, in keeping with its development-oriented approach and taking into account the strategic objectives and priorities of the region and its countries, should also intensify its negotiations with other countries in the region with a view to strengthening trade relations and regional integration.
in writing. − i voted on this recommendation for a council decision on the conclusion of an interim agreement between the eastern and southern african states and the european community and its member states, establishing a framework for an economic partnership agreement. this interim agreement provides for the possibility of duty-free and quota-free exports of goods from mauritius, madagascar, the seychelles and zimbabwe to the european union market. these countries will gradually open their markets to european exports over a period of 15 years, with certain exemptions (up to 20% of eu imports) for certain products they consider problematic. this agreement strengthens the partnership between the partner countries and the eu. it creates new instruments for dialogue between the parties (e.g. the epa committee) which will facilitate productive cooperation and effective discussion. the provisional agreement is also another step towards regional integration. the eu is contributing to regional integration through a number of measures, such as the most-favoured-nation exemption for acp trade and the maintenance of regional preferences for eastern and southern african countries. the signing of the interim epa is therefore a necessary step towards sustainable growth in the region. it is also important to continue negotiations on a comprehensive agreement in the region, promoting more trade, investment and regional integration.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the signing of the interim economic partnership agreement is a necessary step towards sustainable growth in the eastern and southern africa region. it is therefore essential to continue negotiations on a comprehensive agreement in this region, promoting more trade, investment and regional integration. increased legal certainty should contribute to improving the trade and investment environment in the countries concerned in the region.
in writing. − the interim agreement between the eastern and southern african states and the eu, which sets out the framework for an economic partnership agreement, is a solid foundation for a stable partnership, effective cooperation and regional integration between the eu and the region. in particular, greater legal certainty will help to create a better trade and investment environment and ensure a sustainable, wto-rules-based trade relationship. in addition, the provisions of this agreement should provide an incentive for the partner countries to pursue trade and economic policy reforms more effectively. i also believe that sustainable development and human rights should be given greater prominence in this agreement and in others.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on state aid modernisation. it is important to emphasise the need for less, but better-targeted, state aid which places less demand on public spending and does not distort competition, while supporting the shift to a knowledge economy. the modernisation of state aid can improve the functioning of the internal market through a more effective policy to limit the distortions of competition, to maintain a level playing field and fight protectionism. the role of state aid now becomes more important as it is necessary to exploit the potential for growth of the internal market. parliament urges the commission to take this position into account, as well as to cooperate with national and regional authorities while developing policy on state aid.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because state aid should be designed to encourage the spontaneous development of services, knowledge and infrastructure. parliament welcomed the commission's communication on the modernisation of state aid and its new proposals for regulations, but called on the commission to ensure that the promotion of growth, as one of the overall objectives of this reform, did not lead to a further increase in the debt of the member states. it is therefore important to highlight the need for less but more targeted state aid, which would require less public expenditure, not distort competition and at the same time help to transition to a knowledge-based economy. in addition, state aid procedures should be accelerated to allow for a greater focus on complex cases that may have significant effects on competition in the internal market. as regards quality and timeliness of information and reporting, the commission should ensure a better exchange of information with the member states. in addition, effective national systems must ensure that state aid measures which are not subject to ex ante notification comply with european union law.
in writing. − i voted in favour because i believe that more targeted state aid is needed, which would require less public spending, not distort competition and at the same time help to transition to a knowledge-based economy. state aid must be designed to promote the spontaneous development of services, knowledge and infrastructure rather than to support specific companies. competition policy must enable the state to adequately support the green transition of the economy, in particular in the areas of renewable energy and energy efficiency
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on recent casualties in textile factory fires, notably in bangladesh. work conditions in textile factories in southern asia are often poor, due to a significant lack of safety guarantees which leads to hundreds of workers being killed every year in fires all over southern asia. an estimated 600 garment workers have died since 2005 in factory fires in bangladesh alone. the european market is the largest export destination for bangladeshi apparel and textile products, with prominent international and european companies having contracts with factories in bangladesh and in other southern asian countries. therefore, it is important to urge those companies to provide all necessary security measures which would protect workers in those factories from accidents and especially from fire. the commission must play a strong role in this regard and request european entrepreneurs to strictly implement fire protection measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is necessary to protect workers from accidents at work and to implement health and safety provisions at the workplace, regardless of the country in which they are employed. the european parliament, in its resolution, deplores the deaths of people in the recent factory fires and expresses its sympathy for the bereaved families and the injured. in bangladesh, at least 112 people died in a fire at the factory in tazreen on 24 november 2012, and 289 people died in the september 2012 blaze in pakistan. parliament considered it totally unacceptable that so many workers had been killed in south asian factory fires in recent years and called on the commission to actively promote responsible behaviour by eu companies operating abroad and to pay particular attention to ensuring that they strictly comply with their legal obligations, in particular with international standards, human rights, labour and environmental protection. in addition, the eight core ilo conventions, which require strict provisions to protect workers' rights and health at work, should be implemented in a coherent manner.
in writing. - i supported this proposal because of the surprising number of workers killed in south asian factory fires in recent years. i therefore agreed to call on the governments of bangladesh and pakistan to continue to investigate thoroughly the recent events and to take measures to prevent further tragedies in the future. i also supported the promotion of compliance by manufacturers with health and safety legislation and the establishment of an effective and independent system of labour inspections and inspections of industrial premises.
in writing. - i voted for the document. the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and on weapons of mass destruction is a cornerstone of international security. the overriding security priorities are to prevent additional states from acquiring or using nuclear weapons, to reduce global nuclear stockpiles and to achieve a world without nuclear weapons.
in writing. − the postponement of the helsinki conference scheduled for 2012 can be seen as a negative signal. it would be important to set a new date for the conference as soon as possible. security in the region is very fragile right now. i believe that the union for the mediterranean, which brings together the countries of the region, can be a useful platform for discussing the issues that are relevant in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because, more than two years later, the council has not yet adopted its common position on the regulation on the indication of the country of origin of certain products imported from third countries and the codecision process has remained at an impasse. the european parliament does not agree with the commission's intention to withdraw the proposal for this regulation, which parliament approved at first reading in a timely and appropriate manner, and therefore calls on the commission to reconsider its intended decision. the commission should also be reminded of the importance of maintaining a level playing field between european union companies and their third-country competitors as part of multilateral trade, and of a coherent strategy to ensure consumer protection. it is also important to add value to high quality production and environmental and social standards in the current global competition environment, which is crucial for smes. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to establish its common position after the first reading in parliament, in order to allow for a normal institutional debate.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as information is one of the cornerstones of citizens' freedom and consumer protection. it is also important to maintain a level playing field between eu companies and their third-country competitors, and to pursue a coherent strategy to ensure consumer protection. it is necessary to place more value on high quality production and environmental and social standards in the current global competitive environment.
in writing. − as long as consumer protection remains one of the eu's priority policy areas, the commission's refusal to introduce new rules on the indication of the country of origin of products imported from third countries is unacceptable. unfortunately, it has to be admitted that the commission, after taking a sufficiently active initiative to regulate the provision of information to consumers, then for some reason loses enthusiasm and for some reason does not rush to submit draft implementing legislation. this is particularly true in the area of food safety, and now we see it extending to the regulation of all imported goods. i therefore support parliament's position to call on the commission to submit new rules on country of origin designations as soon as possible.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because the european union is the largest trading partner and investor in the mercosur countries and this interregional agreement concerns 800 million citizens. the eu-mercosur negotiations are economically and politically important and were renewed in 2010 with the aim of reaching an agreement that benefits both parties. unfortunately, the negotiations on the agreement have been slow and no substantial progress has been made so far. the success of such negotiations therefore depends on both parties negotiating in a spirit of openness and mutual trust and on the need to establish a stable framework for better investment protection. it is also important to incorporate respect for democratic principles, fundamental and human rights and the rule of law, as well as environmental and social standards, in all trade agreements concluded by the eu with third countries, in order to achieve greater coherence in external action, respecting the eu's economic interests and promoting its fundamental values.
in writing. - i voted for the document. trade is one of the key tools available to policymakers to stimulate growth and job creation. there must be closer cooperation between the eu and mercosur, and i believe that deeper economic integration between the european and mercosur countries will be beneficial to both sides.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the eu is one of mercosur's main trading partners, and the agreement reached would open up greater opportunities for eu businesses to invest in the industrial and service sectors and to increase exports. in particular, the principles of openness and mutual trust should be given a special role in the negotiations between the parties, with clear and substantive political commitments. both parties should be provided with sufficient political motivation and strong political support. on the other hand, these negotiations should ensure that the future agreement is mutually beneficial and that no sector or region or state is sacrificed or otherwise affected.
author. − mr president, as part of the european parliament delegation, i visited bahrain a month ago. we in the european parliament consider the gulf cooperation council and its member states to be strategic partners of the eu and are keen to see that political dialogue, as well as economic cooperation, will initially be developed on that basis. nevertheless, we cannot and will not ignore human rights violations in the gcc countries and in bahrain in particular. on 7 january bahrain’s court of cassation upheld prison terms for 13 prominent activists on charges of plotting to overthrow the monarchy. eight of them, including abdulhadi al-khawaja and ibrahim sharif – two of the three prisoners of conscience we visited in al-jaw prison while we were in bahrain – have been given life sentences. now only a royal pardon will change their destiny. i call on the leadership of bahrain to release all prisoners of conscience as an essential step towards a genuine national dialogue.
author. − mr president, on behalf of the epp group, i would like to propose an oral amendment to paragraph 10 and the amendment is only one word. the word is ‘directly’. the amended paragraph 10 will read in the following way: ‘stresses its strong disapproval regarding the lack of an eu response to the ongoing situation in bahrain and calls on the vp/hr to condemn the ongoing violations of basic human rights and fundamental freedoms, to impose targeted restrictive measures (visa bans and asset freezes) on the individuals directly responsible for, or involved in, the human rights abuses (as documented in the bici report) and to reconsider the eu’s current trade and diplomatic relations with bahrain;’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the adjustment of the special agricultural measures for the small aegean islands. one of the eu's objectives is to reduce disparities in the development of the union's regions, in particular island, border and mountain regions. eu support to the smaller aegean islands includes measures to promote the production, processing and marketing of certain agricultural products and support for the supply of raw materials to the islands. it is proposed to revise substantially the aid agreements for the smaller aegean islands, including measures for environmental protection and the strengthening of agricultural infrastructure. i support the proposals to link aid to the islands to production in order to encourage local and traditional production, to increase the annual funding for specific supply agreements by 30% and to improve the transport of agricultural products produced or processed in the aegean islands. it is important to cooperate more closely with the responsible administrative structures in greece to this end.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. the spread and relative position of the aegean islands impedes the supply of goods and trade, which leads to a significant increase in transport costs. the existing transport networks are not sufficient, and the old fleet does not improve the situation. the limited size, lack of access both to and from the islands, the declining and ageing population, the lack of basic goods and public services such as water, electricity, heating and other complex conditions are factors that set the aegean islands apart. this creates a double isolation, with the smaller islands being supplied from the central islands. the new proposal, which provides for specific agricultural measures for the smaller aegean islands to improve the supply and trade situation, is therefore intended to improve rather than to amend the existing regulation.
in writing. - i support this resolution. only by joint efforts can we protect the agricultural products of local importance of the smaller aegean islands and prevent distortions of competition or discrimination against operators. it should be noted that farming conditions in this region are particularly difficult. it is therefore essential that an integrated policy is applied to these scattered aegean islands. it is essential to ensure that the aid is granted under a specific supply arrangements applicable only to high quality products, as these products are necessary for human consumption, the production of other products or for agricultural use. it is also necessary to maintain the competitiveness of union products and to promote local production.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation on the alignment of the provisions of the regulation establishing specific measures for agriculture in the outermost regions of the union with the treaty of lisbon. one of the eu's objectives is to reduce disparities in the development of the union's regions, in particular island, border and mountain regions. posei, the programme for the outermost regions, lays down specific arrangements for the supply of products to these regions. the financing under the special supply arrangements is capped in each country to avoid unfair competition with island products. i support calls for member states to improve the planning of measures to support local products in order to increase the effectiveness of support for different sectors. i support calls for increased border controls on imports from third countries to prevent unfair competition for local products. it is also important to strengthen plant health programmes.
in writing. - i agreed to this. the programme for the outermost regions and islands (posei) was launched in 1991 to help the french overseas departments and later extended to the outermost regions of other eu countries. the profitability of the agricultural products and industries of these outermost regions depends on this programme. the posei programme comprises two separate schemes. in particular, in these regions, the specific supply arrangements apply to products intended for direct consumption, to products intended for the processing or packaging industry or to products intended for feed or agricultural use. the financing under the special supply arrangements is capped in each country to avoid unfair competition with island products. on the other hand, the other part of the posei programme, which provides for about 80% of the aid and is very consistent, includes specific measures to support local production of agricultural products, which play a crucial role in ensuring the viability of this activity. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal, because in these times of crisis, when unemployment in these regions is often higher than the national average, it is not only necessary to maintain this programme, but also to strengthen it as much as possible.
in writing. - i support this resolution. in particular, the smooth and balanced economic and social development of the outermost regions of the union must be ensured. in this context, it is necessary to increase the effectiveness of support and to encourage maximum flexibility. particular attention must be paid to local producers and products in the outermost regions, protecting them from unfair competition. the measures to be applied should also reduce the economic dependence on a small number of products.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on improving access to finance for smes. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are of great importance to the european union. they are the backbone of the european economy and an important driver of economic growth in the european union. smes are a major contributor to job creation in the 27 member states of the european union. however, the economic crisis has made smes particularly vulnerable, making it increasingly difficult for them to obtain credit for business development as creditors have become more cautious. due to the stricter capital requirements, creditors often ask for additional personal guarantees in addition to the usual bank guarantees. this may constitute an additional obstacle for entrepreneurs to set up or invest in their smes. i support the proposed possible solutions to improve access to finance for smes: 1) to increase the professionalism of the sector; 2) to establish better cooperation and exchange of information between smes and creditors; 3) to monitor the financial situation of smes on a more regular basis; (4) to lay down clear rules for the application of (personal) guarantees; (5) to establish clear rules on early repayment of credit, the imposition of possible fines and the calculation of lost profits for creditors. however, it is also important that the commission is flexible in its approach to financing the growth of smes and supports alternative financing instruments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on improving access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the financial crisis in the eu has led some creditors to become more cautious in lending to smes. in addition, the introduction of new and stricter rules (e.g. financial institutions and capital requirements rules) made it even more difficult for these companies to obtain financing. the proposal aims to create more favourable bank loans for smes, alternative forms of risk capital, clearer and more effective rules for cooperation with creditors and faster settlements with them. i support the suggestions that eu and national authorities should exercise caution when drawing up new rules on capital requirements, that a clear rule on the repayment of credit, the imposition of possible penalties and the calculation of lost profits for creditors should be developed, and that alternative financing instruments should also be supported. as households in some countries have large amounts of savings in bank accounts, i support the call on the commission to explore how to enable these savings to be actively used, for example by providing tax incentives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are of vital importance to european economic development, as they contribute to job creation in all eu member states. it is no wonder that the crisis has led to a downturn in the activity of smes. one reason is that creditors have become more cautious. in other words, new, stricter rules on capital requirements for both eu and national authorities have been introduced, making it more difficult for smes to access finance. while preventive measures are justified in times of crisis, eu and national authorities should exercise caution when developing new capital requirements rules. in the absence of a single impact assessment covering all the different rules implemented, the implications for the financial sector and for access to finance for smes are highly uncertain. another problem faced by smes is the lack of transparency, for example in early repayment of loans. the funding loss and the additional penalty are not always properly indicated in advance. sometimes the total cost of repaying a pre-financing loan is so high that smes cannot afford it and therefore cannot reconsider their investment and decision to take out a loan. it is important to note that while there is no one-size-fits-all solution for the different types of sme activity, the combined efforts of the eu member states could increase the professionalism of the sector by establishing clear rules for the application of guarantees, by establishing better cooperation between smes and creditors (exchange of information) and by monitoring the financial situation of smes on a more regular basis.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are of great importance to the european union (eu). smes create around 90 million jobs in the eu, 30% of which are in micro-enterprises, and 85% of all new jobs between 2002 and 2012 were created by smes, and in particular in start-ups. smes are the backbone of the european economy and an important driver of growth in the eu economy. smes are a major contributor to job creation in the eu-27. however, smes are vulnerable. and that became clear when the crisis started. the crisis has led some creditors to become more cautious in lending to smes. in addition, the introduction of new stringent rules, such as those on financial institutions and capital requirements, which are enforced by both eu and national authorities, has made it more difficult for smes to access funding. the proposal therefore aims to simplify the regulatory and administrative environment for smes. this would further promote the simplification of administrative procedures at european, national, regional, local and cross-border levels, in order to create a clear and transparent legal framework that seeks to limit the complexity of regulation that often constitutes a barrier for smes to apply for eu funding.
in writing. - i support the document adopted today. when the financial sector in eu member states is in difficulty, it is often their weaker customers who suffer. unfortunately, smes, which make up the bulk of the eu business sector, are often in a weaker position when negotiating financing terms with banks and other financial institutions. it is therefore necessary to ensure easier access to finance for smes in order to ensure that they continue to play an important role in the eu's economic recovery.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. smes are one of the main pillars of economic growth and sustainable job creation. it is therefore essential to improve access to affordable finance for smes, to reduce administrative and tax burdens and to create a clear and transparent legal framework. it should be noted that the economic and financial crisis has dealt a severe blow to smes and that the eu and the member states should therefore make more effective use of all available financial support mechanisms for smes. given the diversity, diversity and vulnerability of smes, different approaches should be applied to each individual. particular attention shall be paid to loan funds and new financing methods, through innovative systems and non-bank sources of financing and the strengthening of mixed capital instruments.
in writing. − smes are the engine of the eu economy, accounting for 80% of all eu enterprises and the largest taxpayer group. in the current economic situation and in the context of the crisis, it is becoming increasingly difficult for companies to obtain bank financing. smes suffer first and foremost because banks make it difficult for them to obtain credit. even more than 80% of eu smes are only able to operate by receiving external financing loans from banks. the situation in the sme sector is very difficult. we cannot allow banks to speculate on our future and that of smes: let us remember the loans we gave to banks when the banking crisis began and rescued them. the behaviour of banks in lending to smes is of great importance. loans must be provided at reasonable rates of interest. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the commission with all the information it needs to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. the funding loss and the additional penalty are not always properly indicated in advance. sometimes the total cost of repaying a pre-financing loan is so high that smes cannot afford it transparency is also important when a bank refuses to lend to smes. we also need to think about non-bank loans to smes, such as individual loans. we also need national investment banks, like in germany. i agree that 20% of the horizon 2020 measure should be reserved for the promotion of smes. smes are a crucial socioeconomic group in the country, creating jobs, adding value and attracting investment.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, despite the efforts of the european union institutions to tighten the austerity measures for the member states of the community, the economy has been in recession. its decline continues. the expected economic recovery did not take place. today we suffer from self-imposed fiscal austerity that has not only boosted the economy, but has reduced demand, jobs, wages and raised the prices of raw materials and products. and that's not just my opinion, but the imf's expert opinion. they say that gradual fiscal consolidation is more appropriate than a strategy of overly rapid and sudden reduction of public fiscal imbalances. i believe that today it is particularly important to implement the action plan presented by the european commission to combat tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens, so that by 2020 we can reduce the tax gap between the shadow and the real budget revenues by at least half.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. recently, it's not just the experts who have been in power, but for decades, we've been replacing each other. and my dear colleague, do you also accept no blame for the emergence of the banking frizz? you completely deny that social benefits are just a fraction of all the costs that we have to cover today in the banking sector and all the other problems that have arisen in the last five, six years when right-wing domination was dominant in europe itself.
as a result of the many important decisions and agreements reached last year on concrete measures and strengthening financial discipline, stricter banking supervision and stronger economic governance, the member states and the european union as a whole face a considerable political challenge this year in implementing the adopted measures in a timely and appropriate manner. it is therefore important that the implementation of the specific recommendations addressed to the member states is monitored and supervised at european union level. the european union must also make it a priority to protect the economy of the european union as a whole and its markets, ensuring fair and transparent assessment of member states' economies and safeguarding investor confidence. i would therefore once again urge the commission to put forward proposals for the establishment of european credit rating agencies in order to protect and defend our market and ensure its sustainable and socially responsible recovery. it was suggested that balancing the finances - that's easy. balancing the finances is very unusual.
thank you, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the economic and financial crisis has led to a very tense situation on the european labour market: unemployment continues to rise, social exclusion is widening and more and more people are being pushed into poverty. in these circumstances, the fight against unemployment must be one of the main policy priorities of the european union and the member states. the european council must therefore give serious consideration to the proposed recommendations and adopt its own policy guidelines in order to achieve positive results. it is disappointing that the priorities set during last year's european semester cycle, in particular in terms of job creation, have unfortunately not been achieved. unfortunately, it is too late to realise the negative effects of austerity on employment and social policy as a whole, which increase poverty and social exclusion. what about the record high levels of youth unemployment in all eu countries? therefore, the fight against unemployment should involve more investment in people, in education, training, skills development, employability and overcoming social exclusion. ensuring access to education and work, especially for our young people, is of paramount importance and the youth guarantee initiative must be one of the priorities.
in writing. in these difficult economic and social times, it is particularly important to promote corporate social responsibility both within and outside the european union. corporate social responsibility is one of the tools that contribute to overcoming the crisis and promoting a more sustainable economic recovery. i support the idea of the report, which calls on companies to consider initiatives to preserve and create jobs, especially for young people, women and people with disabilities. reducing unemployment and increasing employment are the eu's top priorities today. in today's economic and social context, mitigating the social impact of the crisis and seeking more advanced business models is becoming part of corporate social responsibility. another relevant aspect is the upskilling of workers and the promotion of lifelong learning in the workplace. this is also an important part of corporate social responsibility that we must bear in mind. however, when we talk about the innovative aspects of csr, we must not forget the fundamental aspects of the principle itself. the foundation of corporate social responsibility is essentially the observance of labour laws, respect for workers' rights and their implementation in practice. this includes the provision of appropriate physical working conditions, the timely payment of wages and benefits, compliance with established recruitment and dismissal procedures, and the protection of employees' data and privacy. unfortunately, these questions are becoming relevant again in the context of the crisis and in times of economic hardship, we are forced to return to the foundations of corporate social responsibility.
in writing. the european parliament's draft resolution on corporate social responsibility places a positive emphasis on european support for initiatives to increase the involvement of enterprises in social processes. this is of great importance in the context of the current economic crisis, and csr should be seen as an opportunity rather than a threat to competitiveness in international trade. short-term thinking, which focuses solely on the transparency and accountability of financial markets, would be to repeat the same mistakes that contributed to the spectacular collapse of banks. this is why companies should be more actively involved in mitigating the social consequences of the crisis. action is needed to promote job creation and health at work, strengthen pension stability and promote wages that ensure a decent standard of living. each of the 27 member states should develop a programme of protective change, adapted to its own legal system, with the participation of all stakeholders, including non-governmental organisations, trade unions, employers' organisations and national human rights institutions. it must be the duty of every state to protect workers' rights and to prevent injured workers from violating their right to a fair trial. in addition, states should encourage the implementation of measures to protect the private and family life of the worker. in contrast, csr must become a mechanism through which employers can support both workers and local communities.
thank you, mr president, i think this is the time of the day to discuss the appropriate noise level. the less noise, the more peaceful the sleep. i would like to draw attention to two different aspects of the document we are discussing today. one aspect concerns vehicle inspections carried out in the member states. the determination of vehicle noise has been regulated at eu level for a long time, so that a comprehensive eu-type database with vehicle noise levels has been established. unfortunately, in some member states, the competent authorities do not rely on these data for the technical inspection of cars, but on the noise level, which is calculated on the basis of the car's engine parameters. this level of calculation is, i believe, outdated and, as experience has shown, these cars are on our roads and their noise is a danger to human health. of course, the use of these data for the inspection of non-new vehicles should also take into account the age of the vehicles inspected, but without deviating from the noise level of the vehicles approved and regulated by european union rules. the second aspect relates to the negative aspect of our objective of reducing noise from cars. it has been said today, and i want to say it again, that the noise from new electric cars is a danger to the lives of the blind and visually impaired, that is, people who are oriented by sound. it is therefore necessary to ensure that such vehicles are equipped with an audible warning system recognisable and understandable to visually impaired persons.
the first council meeting this year could be the springtime bell that heralds not only a summer of policy-making but also a good autumn with a ripening harvest. i hope that this spring will begin with a return to the people of europe, a consolidation of their equality and the wisdom of equitably allocating the 2014-2020 multiannual financial assistance. and by that, i mean two questions. first, the efforts of the three baltic states to persuade the european institutions to harmonise agricultural payments by 2015. i believe that such an agreement at the level of heads of state should be reached later this year. secondly, i believe it is necessary to achieve agreement in the near future on a concrete action plan by the member states to achieve the overall objective of at least 3% of gdp for research investment.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the accession of bulgaria and romania to the european union has led to the enlargement of its customs union. the european union was therefore obliged under the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) to enter into negotiations with wto members with a negotiating power over any acceding country's list of commitments in order to agree on a mutually acceptable countervailing arrangement in order to avoid an increase in the mandatory duties and the associated significant losses. such adjustment is necessary if the adoption of the external tariff regime of the eu results in an increase in the customs duties in relation to the duties for which the acceding country has committed itself to the wto, taking account of the reductions in customs duties for the same group of goods made by the other countries of that union on the establishment of the customs union. these agreements address two issues in order to implement wto requirements. first, the compensation of higher customs duties, which is usually carried out by setting a country tariff quota or increasing the existing quota (s). secondly, the pre-accession erga omnes tariff quota for bulgaria and romania (not country specific but worldwide) should also be added to the existing eu erga omnes tariff quotas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution calling for the conclusion of the agreement. the proper implementation of the eu's international commitments, including in the light of the recent enlargement of the european union, requires the implementation of the gatt commitments of the eu member states and of bulgaria and romania. we must do everything we can to maintain normal trade flows and not prevent goods from other countries from entering the eu market. it should be noted that the expansion of the eu customs union has led to a deterioration of the us situation. the us has a right to revert to its previous trade rights, and a mutually acceptable countervailing adjustment mechanism is required to ensure that the us can properly exercise its right to revert. this mechanism will prevent the increase of duties and will also restore favourable market access opportunities for producers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. this resolution sends a clear signal from parliament to the member state governments that they have to make further commitments to ensure the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, with a special focus on job creation and stimulating growth. moreover, further support should be given to the development of smes, and special emphasis should be placed on education and training. member states should continue to make every effort to address the priority areas of increasing labour market participation and reducing structural unemployment, developing a skilled workforce responding to labour market needs and promoting job quality and lifelong learning, improving the performance of education and training systems at all levels, promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. also, due to the persistent employment and social crisis, combating youth unemployment in particular should be a top priority for all governments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. one of the objectives of the european union is to develop a coordinated employment strategy to create a skilled and professionally prepared workforce and labour markets that are responsive to economic change. these guidelines provide clear and precise guidance to member states on how to prepare and implement national reform programmes to this end in line with the stability and growth pact. this proposal aims to extend these guidelines until 2014 and i therefore support it.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that member states and the union shall work towards developing a coordinated strategy for employment, in particular by developing a skilled, vocationally prepared and adaptable workforce and labour markets that are adaptable to economic change, in order to achieve the objectives set out in the treaty on european union. in line with the europe 2020 strategy proposed by the commission, the union will be able to orient its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, while ensuring high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion. the five main objectives listed in the relevant guidelines constitute common objectives underpinning the action of the member states and taking into account their different starting positions and national circumstances as well as those of the union. the european employment strategy has a key role to play in delivering the employment and labour market objectives of the new strategy. these new integrated guidelines are in line with the conclusions of the european council. it provides precise guidance to member states on how to prepare national reform programmes and implement reforms, taking into account their interdependence and in line with the stability and growth pact. the employment guidelines should provide the basis for country-specific recommendations.
in writing. − i believe that the fight against unemployment must be given the highest priority in the employment policy guidelines of the member states, in view of the increasingly high levels of youth and long-term unemployment. it should be noted that austerity measures have only increased the risk of poverty and have had a particularly negative impact on labour markets. we cannot continue to ignore the expectations of specific people by limiting their opportunities to work and earn. on the other hand, savings should not be forgotten, but savings should not be at the expense of the socially vulnerable. taking into account the current situation not only in individual member states but also in the eu as a whole, it is necessary to define measures that would substantially reduce the number of people not in employment and education. more attention should be paid to the promotion of the long-term unemployed. the social vulnerable must be given favourable opportunities to participate actively in the various programmes relating to the development of skills for employability. it is important to properly implement the principles of increasing social inclusion and models of social protection systems that promote work and participation in the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on transparency of medicines prices. the european parliament supported the commission's proposal to update the existing legislative framework in order to clarify the procedural obligations of the member states and to ensure the effectiveness of internal market legislation, both in order to avoid delays in decisions on pricing and compensation and to remove barriers to trade in pharmaceutical products. while the exclusive competence of the member states to decide on the prices and reimbursement of medicinal products must be respected, minimum procedural requirements should also ensure legal certainty and transparency for the national competent authorities, promote the production of medicinal products and the placing on the market of generic medicinal products, and encourage research and development of new medicinal products. this would allow all european patients to have access to affordable treatment and better and cheaper medicines.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the transparency of measures regulating the prices of medicinal products for human use. the aim of this proposal is to speed up the marketing of generic medicines by simplifying the procedure for national decisions on the price of medicines and reducing the time taken to reach these decisions. generic medicines are cheaper analogues of existing medicines that are sold after the expiry of a patent. according to the commission, such medicines are up to 40% cheaper than originals, and therefore the companies holding the patent seek to prolong their exclusive right to sell originals by not placing their analogues on the market for as long as possible. it is essential to change this and to enable eu citizens to buy cheaper medicines. it is intended to set a 60-day deadline for the adoption of a decision on the pricing and reimbursement of generic medicines (today this can take up to 700 days). i support this proposal and the proposal to require the pharmaceutical control authorities to disclose the names and declarations of interests of their experts who take decisions on the prices and reimbursement of medicinal products, and the proposal to publish once a year the lists of reimbursed medicinal products and their prices.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to ensure the production of medicines and the access to the market for generic medicines. research and development of new medicines should also be encouraged in order to improve access to affordable treatment for all european patients. it is important to note that, although member states are responsible for their health systems, health services and the organisation of healthcare, each member state may take measures to control the consumption of medicines, regulate prices or set conditions for public funding. the commission's proposal therefore aims to systematize the minimum requirements in order to ensure that national measures, in particular those governing the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products for human use, do not conflict with the principle of free movement of goods. to that end, the directive lays down a number of procedural requirements designed to ensure the transparency of the pricing and compensation measures adopted by the member states, including the time limits or obligation to take the relevant decisions. in short, to ensure that the competent national authorities state the reasons for each of their decisions and provide the applicant companies with appropriate remedies. these proposals should contribute to an effective and safe health policy that is patient-oriented and aims to ensure the best value for money.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. the overall objective of this proposal should be to update the existing legislative framework in order to clarify the procedural obligations of the member states and to ensure the proper functioning of the common market and the effectiveness of internal market legislation, both in order to avoid delays in decisions on pricing and compensation and in order to remove obstacles to trade in pharmaceutical products. these new rules should speed up the introduction of generic medicines on the market. these are cheaper analogues of existing medicines that can be sold under their own brand after the patent has expired. that's why some medications should be avoided.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because i believe that decisions on the pricing and reimbursement of medicines must be taken in a timely and transparent manner, carefully balancing the obligation to preserve the competence of the member states in the field of public health with the need to ensure the effectiveness of the directive in achieving the internal market objectives. i agree with the rapporteur's suggestions that provisions relating to the transparency of the decision-making process and the decisions taken should be strengthened, as this is a growing need in society, particularly in the case of pharmaceutical prices and reimbursement. i therefore consider that the proposal to require the competent authorities to disclose the names and declarations of interests of experts who are members of their decision-making bodies is particularly appropriate. i believe that such provisions and increased disclosure of documents and information will improve the transparency, integrity and independence of the decisions taken.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because only by joint efforts can we facilitate the functioning of the internal market in medicines. in order to ensure the free movement of medicinal products and the correct pricing of such products, it is necessary to remove barriers to trade in pharmaceutical products. it is essential to ensure that consumers have effective and expeditious access to redress procedures. in particular, effective measures should be established to ensure the rapid resolution of irregularities through mediation. this would avoid delays in decisions on pricing and compensation. secondly, such regulation will help to protect patients and contribute to the efficiency and sustainability of health systems. the correct implementation of the measures provided for in the directive should lead to a reduction in the prices of all medicinal products or of certain categories of medicinal products.
in writing. − eu legislation on medicines prices is 25 years old. at present, the financial sustainability of the healthcare systems of the member states is not able to bear the burden of the economic crisis and of budgetary austerity policies. the pharmaceutical market and patient needs have changed considerably over this period, which requires updated, more advanced regulatory frameworks and greater transparency. i voted in favour of this report because it is useful not only for the member states but also for patients and the pharmaceutical industry, which creates many jobs. patients want a more transparent pricing system for medicines, which will make it cheaper and faster for them to get the medicines they need. it is important for countries to save more budgetary resources, which will guarantee the development of generic medicines in the market.
in writing. − while the exclusive competence of the member states to decide on the prices and reimbursement of medicines should be respected, we know that the prices of the same medicines vary considerably between member states. pharmacists usually argue that the price of drugs depends on the size of the country, and therefore the size of the market, and that the larger the country, the cheaper the drugs. the price also varies because some medicines are reimbursed for the same medicines and others are not. the lack of transparency in the pricing of medicinal products in the member states leaves a wide margin for non-transparent pricing and unjustified profit-raising by pharmaceutical companies. i am in favour of a transparent system for the pricing of medicines. i am in favour of a 90-day period for setting the price of the medicine and the compensation mechanism. i think in the long run, we'll be well prepared for the introduction of a new drug. i also believe that we need to reduce barriers to entry and give patients access to newly developed medicines. it is necessary to ensure that the eu medicines agency is able to fulfil its supervisory role effectively. i am calling for more transparency in drug prices, and for drug price regulators to be able to give us access to affordable medicines. i congratulate the rapporteur, mr parvanov, on his excellent work. public health is a great asset, not a burden. the eu must promote research and the development of new medicines with the ultimate aim of improving access to affordable treatment for all european patients.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution, which has a major impact on fishermen in the baltic sea region. the baltic sea is rapidly depleting its fish stocks as a result of intensive fishing. if we do not draw conclusions now and take measures to ensure that fish stocks are used sparingly, and if we do not implement strategies for the recovery of fish stocks, we will be in a sorry position in a few years' time: we will have fishermen but no fish, and fishermen will have nothing to fish. i voted in favour of this resolution in order to support the position of lithuanian naturalists, i.e. the principle of maximum sustainable yield, the definition of fishing capacity, the prohibition of discarding non-targeted catches, etc. it is expected that only as many of a given species as can be replaced in a year will be allowed to be caught each year. this would help to restore the depleted stocks by 2020. this would result in an additional 15 million tonnes of fish and create 37 000 new jobs. the eu plans to develop more accurate multiannual fisheries management plans based on scientific data provided by the member states. i am pleased that in voting on the european parliament's recommendations to the council of the eu on the eu's common fisheries policy framework regulation, we, the meps from the countries surrounding the baltic sea, have come together as much as possible, even across party lines. it turns out that the interests and positions of the people living around the baltic sea and the mediterranean sea on fish and fisheries policy differ considerably, and in some cases even radically.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). the reform aims to tackle overfishing, the depletion of fish stocks and unemployment in the eu's coastal regions. despite the lack of scientific data, the commission estimates that around 75% of eu fish stocks are over-exploited and that the eu loses around €1.8 billion a year as a result of poor fisheries. the proposal aims to establish sustainable fishing quotas, to prohibit fishermen from discarding unwanted fish, and to establish, from 2015, the principle of maximum sustainable yield, whereby the annual catch is to be sufficient to restore the stock. the objective is to restore depleted stocks by 2020. i agree that one of the problems that needs to be addressed is the lack of scientific data and the disregard for scientific advice. i agree with the above and with the proposals to provide for additional research programmes, to ensure that all fish caught are landed, to direct financial support towards selective fishing.
in writing. - i agreed to this. the european union's common fisheries policy (cfp) is essential to ensure the environmental, economic and social sustainability of fisheries management. the objectives of the common fisheries policy have not yet been achieved. the current cap has been a fundamental failure. it has become clear that it is not possible to solve longstanding problems such as overfishing, overcapacity, the poor economic situation of many fisheries enterprises and the social problems caused by the decline of fisheries in many coastal regions. the reform of the cfp is necessary to avoid the continuing depletion of large fish stocks, fleet overcapacity, low profitability and economic resilience of many fleets. over the past few decades, european waters have suffered a sharp decline in fish stocks and some species are at risk of disappearing completely. one in four fish caught is thrown back into the sea dead. this is a total waste of resources, as more than 60% of the fish consumed in europe is currently imported. the fisheries sector is almost unprofitable and in many cases only survives thanks to subsidies. the high financial burden encourages short-term planning and unwise and inappropriate activities that cause serious damage to the marine environment. the need for urgent reform of the cap is therefore more evident than ever.
in writing. − today we have confirmed our position on a very important issue, which will determine the future of the eu's common fisheries. while the document contains many important provisions aimed at preserving fish stocks for future generations, i would like to highlight one such measure. scientifically based management of fish stocks and quota management will ensure that stocks are not only not depleted, but also recover. this measure is particularly relevant for a sea such as the baltic sea, where fish stocks have recently been declining significantly due to very intensive fishing. i believe that these methods will help future generations to conserve fish stocks in other seas.
in writing. - i support this resolution. in order to ensure the sustainable use of marine resources, the principle of maximum sustainable yield needs to be applied more effectively. i think that the council should take into account the regions whose local community depends on fishing and related activities when setting the quotas each year. it is essential to ensure that marine biological resources are protected from the negative effects of fishing. i therefore support the application of certain special conservation measures, granting exclusive or preferential access to certain parts of the fleet and authorising the use of certain fishing gears only. access to fisheries resources shall be based on transparent and objective environmental and social criteria. more attention should be paid to research and innovation in order to develop better, innovative fishing and slaughter methods. states must be provided with sufficient funding for fisheries, scientific data collection and research and innovation programmes.
in writing. − overfishing has created a large issue in the socio-economical aspect of the european union and has adversely affected multiple areas. the environment is becoming less sustainable due to the decrease in fish. many small and large fisheries are becoming less and less profitable and are in turn creating more unemployment. these two elements create a large economy. the amount of fish caught has dropped from 8.1 million tonnes in 1995 to 4.9 million tonnes in 2010. the eu, while not the largest, still has 68 % of overfished stocks. the majority of this lies in the northeast atlantic because that is the location with the most volumes in kilotonnes of live weight. denmark, spain, the uk and france are the countries that catch the most fish. i voted for this report, because it will address these issues: the obligation to land all catches and the discard ban will help increase sustainability of fish. therefore, with these amendments we will see the greatest improvements within the fishing industry in the european union as long as they are adopted in a harmonious manner.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on vehicle noise levels, which aims to reduce the impact of noise from cars on public health and the environment. about half of the eu's urban population is exposed to noise levels above 55 decibels caused by car traffic. the proposal provides for a gradual reduction in vehicle noise levels: after six years from the entry into force of this document, the noise level of new passenger cars will not exceed 68 decibels (currently 74 decibels are allowed), and after eight years this limit will be set for all new vehicles. i support the proposal to introduce a labelling system to inform consumers about the noise emissions of new cars and thus encourage the purchase of low-noise vehicles. i also support the proposal to set minimum noise requirements for electric cars which are quiet and pose a threat to pedestrians.
in writing. - i voted for this document. its main objective is to protect public health and the environment through measures to reduce the noise level of motor vehicles. motor vehicles are one of the main sources of noise pollution. exposure to constantly high levels of noise is thought to increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, cognitive impairment, sleep disturbances and tinnitus. a new method of measuring the sound level of motor vehicles and new noise limits for different categories of light, medium and heavy-duty vehicles should be established. this would undoubtedly be an important step forward in reducing the impact of noise emitted by motor vehicles on public health and the environment.
in writing. - i support this resolution. to reduce environmental noise and ensure safety on the roads and at work, it is necessary to establish strict methods, new limit values that apply uniformly throughout the eu. in order to protect the internal market for motor vehicles with regard to their sound emission level and to promote low-noise vehicles, manufacturers and distributors should be obliged to indicate the noise level of a vehicle. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take a decision on the application of the directive in the light of the findings of the court of justice. electric and hybrid cars are too quiet for the acoustic blind to recognize them. they can't see or hear them coming. this puts their own health and the lives of others at risk. in view of this, i support the proposal to equip silent cars with audible warning systems that clearly indicate the vehicle's state. this is one of the most effective ways to protect the blind.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for co-financing from the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals to increase the rate for member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties in financial stability. today, with the eu in crisis, many member states with external borders are finding it increasingly difficult to cope with the increasing flows of migrants. in order to help these countries to improve the situation of overcrowded refugee centres, additional funding for the management of migration flows is approved. the proposal aims to establish a solidarity mechanism between eu member states in this regard. as migration flows vary from country to country, but the failure of one country to manage migration flows properly affects not only that country but also other member states, i am in favour of increasing funding to countries in severe economic difficulties. i agree with the proposals for more effective control of the use of resources. it is important to strengthen the management and control systems for financing, and to carry out checks and monitoring.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the crisis has forced most member states to take various measures to reduce their debt levels and budget deficits and restore public financial sustainability. due to severe economic difficulties, these member states have encountered difficulties in meeting the co-financing requirements for european union funds. for this reason, the commission has proposed the possibility of increasing the co-financing rate for member states benefiting from the financial assistance mechanism. the proposal aims to allow an increase of 20 percentage points in the co-financing rate of the union, thereby reducing the co-financing needs of a certain proportion of the member states concerned. this would increase the co-financing rate to 70%. for projects targeting specific priority tasks and for member states receiving funding from the cohesion fund, the increased rate could be up to 95%. it is important to note that similar changes to the co-financing requirements have already been adopted for the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the fisheries fund and the agricultural fund for rural development. it is therefore appropriate to allow for similar changes in the case of the funds relating to migration flows. the proper management of migration flows is of vital importance to the european union as a whole. the failure of one member state to ensure effective management of migration flows has an impact not only on the country concerned but also on many other member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the impact of the economic and financial crisis on public finances in some member states was very significant, requiring many member states to take far-reaching measures to reduce debt and budget deficits and to restore the sustainability of public finances. some countries have been so affected that they have had to use eu financial support mechanisms. due to severe economic difficulties, these member states have encountered problems in meeting the co-financing requirements for eu funds. these difficulties are also apparent in the case of the funds for the 'solidarity and management of migration flows' framework programme. it is therefore in the interest of all member states that migration-related commitments are not undermined by the economic difficulties experienced by some member states. the proper management of migration flows is of vital importance to the european union as a whole. the failure of one member state to ensure effective management of migration flows has an impact not only on the country concerned but also on many other member states.
in writing. − i think it is appropriate to increase the co-financing rate for those countries facing serious economic difficulties. it is essential to ensure that migration-related commitments are implemented smoothly and are not affected by the economic downturn, which has significantly undermined the financial stability of certain countries. it should be noted that the proper management of migration flows is important not only for individual member states but also for the eu as a whole. migration, when managed wisely and purposefully, contributes to economic and social benefits. in this context, increased financial support is a guarantee that member states will be able to carry out their migration management tasks in an operational and efficient manner.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for an increase in the co-financing rate from the external borders fund for member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. today, with the eu in crisis, many member states with external borders are finding it increasingly difficult to cope with the increasing flows of migrants. in order to help these countries to improve the situation of overcrowded refugee centres, i support the allocation of additional funds for the management of migration flows. the proposal aims to establish a solidarity mechanism between eu member states in this regard. as migration flows vary from country to country, but the failure of one country to manage migration flows properly affects not only that country but also other member states, i am in favour of increasing funding to countries in severe economic difficulties. i agree with the proposals for more effective control of the use of resources. it is important to strengthen the management and control systems for financing, and to carry out checks and monitoring.
in writing. - i voted for this document. it is important for all member states that the commitments they have made in relation to migration are not undermined by the economic difficulties experienced by some member states. an increase in the co-financing rate from the external borders fund for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability would allow them to avoid or reduce such difficulties. this would therefore benefit europe as a whole, as the failure of one member state to manage migration flows effectively affects not only the country concerned but also many other member states.
in writing. - i voted yes. the 2007 decision on the external borders fund is modified to take account of the need to make the fund available to eu countries struggling with the consequences of the economic and financial crisis, with their national resources increasingly limited. this is necessary to ensure the eu's common objective of developing a comprehensive eu migration policy that contributes to the eu's competitiveness, social cohesion and the creation of a common eu asylum system. therefore, the union co-financing share will be temporarily increased and the national co-financing share will be reduced for countries experiencing severe financial stability difficulties. the effective protection of the eu's external borders is one of the priorities of lithuania's forthcoming presidency of the council of the eu.
in writing. − i support the proposal to increase the co-financing rate for countries in particular financial difficulty and at the same time to reduce the national co-financing rate. budgetary constraints in some member states prevent the effective implementation of programmes and the continuity of projects. moreover, states alone are unable to address the important challenges of migration, asylum and external borders. they need eu financial support. in particular, it is necessary to facilitate the receipt of eu funds for the management of migration, asylum and external borders. secondly, the availability of funds to member states should be improved in order to enable them to implement their annual programmes under the funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the extension of the technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine animals. the aim of this proposal is to ensure the protection of eu fisheries resources. according to the commission, about 75% of the european union's fish stocks are overfished and the union loses around eur 1.8 billion a year as a result of inadequate fishing. technical measures for the conservation of fisheries resources are the rules that eu fishermen must follow when fishing in order to ensure that the fisheries are sustainable. these measures play a key role in the decision-making process on the size of the potential allowable catch. they lay down rules on fishing zones, prohibited gear periods, etc. i agree with the suggestions that these measures cannot be seen as general rules applying in the same way to all member states. it is necessary to develop technical means for specific cases and zones. one of the problems to be addressed is the failure to take account of scientific advice, and i therefore support the call to take account of the variability of fisheries management and scientific advice in the formulation and development of these measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to lay down specific rules on fishing zones and gears in order to conserve fish stocks and protect their ecosystem. it is necessary to develop conservation conditions for fish stocks taking into account the variability of fisheries management and scientific advice. it is important to note that the council regulation on fisheries was drafted with a view to subsequently amending it to establish a permanent framework of technical measures in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, but no political agreement was reached. european fishermen need legal clarity, and the word 'provisional' does not offer any guarantees in this area. poor preparation or the setting of inadequate technical means may lead to the development of improper fishing practices and, in certain cases, to the risk to the lives and safety of fishermen, which would be completely unacceptable. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the participation of the candidates in the tendering procedure.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. i agree that measures are needed to ensure that fish stocks are fished sustainably and that the ecosystems in which fish live are preserved. in addition, these measures need to be formulated and developed taking into account the variability of fisheries management and scientific advice.
in writing. − i support the amendments to this regulation which provide for the extension of the rules on technical measures for a further transitional period. this will ensure legal certainty and the protection of marine resources. it should be noted that ensuring the proper protection of fish stocks is essential to ensure sustainable fishing. technical conservation measures for fisheries resources will help to prevent depletion of resources and maintain the good environmental status of marine ecosystems. particular attention should be paid to the reduction of discards and measures should be introduced to combat environmentally harmful fisheries effectively. in order to continue to ensure the proper conservation and management of marine resources, i believe that the commission should be empowered to take immediate action if necessary to protect marine resources.
in writing. − the main issues at hand for the conservation of fishery resources are the multi-annual plan of the salmon sector in the baltic, shark fining in southern europe and small-scale fisheries. all of these issues at hand require a precise amount of regulation to ensure the success of each of these programmes under the amendments to the conservation of fishery resources. while this will be difficult to carry out, if we collectively join forces in a manner that is unified this can result in great achievements across many sectors of our union. i voted in favour of this report, because the multi-annual plan for the baltic salmon stock will manage to increase stock to ensure maximum sustainability, as well as yield. the eradication of shark fining will both improve the ecosystems for sharks and help small-scale fisheries. because of this, the economy will also be improved because three out of every four small-scale vessels are generating jobs and increasing incomes, boosting the economy within their local communities, as well as nationally. all in all sustainability will be the principal outcome from this proposal. the socio-economic sector as well as the environmental sector will all profit generously from these amendments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution on the elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls. violence against women remains a global epidemic. one in three women has been beaten, raped, sold or otherwise abused at some point in her life. violence affects women and girls worldwide, irrespective of factors such as age or economic status, and it also harms families and communities, imposes significant economic and social costs, and limits and hinders economic growth and development. unfortunately, violence against women is also a problem in the european union. the eu must do more to eliminate violence against women and gender-based violence within its own territory in order to lead the world in the defence of human rights. i therefore support the call in the resolution for the eu and the member states to devote more resources to ending violence against women and girls, including resources at local, national, european and global levels, and to support those organisations and individuals working to end violence against women and gender-based violence, in particular non-governmental organisations working in this field.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because we need to focus as much as possible on combating violence against women and girls, both in the eu and worldwide. although the issue of violence against women has been discussed for decades, it is painful to see that we are still failing to protect women from violence. unfortunately, one in ten women in europe has experienced violence, and it is one of the most common causes of violent death among women. violence against women and girls remains one of the most serious human rights violations, which has no geographical, economic, cultural or social boundaries. violent crime in all its forms has a profound impact and irreparable damage to the physical and mental health of women and girls. therefore, efforts at all levels are needed to eliminate violence against women, including gender-based violence. the united nations has taken the most significant action at international level to combat such violence through the implementation of the beijing platform for action. the european union has also integrated this issue into its internal policies and legislation as well as its foreign policy actions. it is good to see that this problem is being discussed and solved globally. the elimination of violence against women and girls will be the main theme of the 57th session of the united nations commission on the status of women, which will take place on 4-15 march 2013.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. violence against women exists in every country in the world as a pervasive human rights violation and a major obstacle to achieving gender equality and women's empowerment. violence affects women and girls worldwide, regardless of factors such as age, class or economic status, and it also harms families and communities, imposes significant economic and social costs, and limits and hinders economic growth and development. it is therefore necessary to combat all forms of violence against women, including physical, sexual and psychological violence, as set out in the beijing platform for action, as all these types of violence restrict women's enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms. calls for the development of programmes and institutional mechanisms at international and regional levels to ensure that strategies for the prevention of violence against women and girls are at the forefront of all international responses to humanitarian crises related to situations of conflict and its aftermath or natural disasters. a comprehensive implementation plan must be developed to stop violence against women and girls, with a particular focus on prevention.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the prevention and elimination of violence against women and girls. this problem persists in many countries around the world. violence against women and girls is a structural problem. it is regrettable that many forms of violence against women still exist: restrictions on the right to choose, the right to one's own body and bodily integrity, the right to education and the right to self-determination. these forms of discrimination and violence prevent women from fully enjoying their civil and political rights. the united nations commission on the status of women, which met in march, must therefore work to reduce all forms of discrimination. the need for political leaders to cooperate and commit to international institutions, especially in countries where discrimination against women is widespread, and for increased funding for prevention programmes are measures that need to be taken today at all levels. on the other hand, it is inevitable that the ngos themselves, representing women's rights in different countries, providing a wide range of assistance to women, should be involved in programmes to reduce violence against women and girls. political will, a funding mechanism for education and training programmes and a strong ngo sector and their cooperation with each other, i believe can contribute to a faster and more effective solution to this problem, not only globally, but especially in developing countries, but also in eu member states where violence against women still occurs.
in writing. - i support this resolution. a coordinated, cross-sectoral approach is needed to effectively implement actions to stop violence against women and girls and to prevent the causes of violence from arising. it should be noted that violence is not limited by geographical, cultural, social, economic or educational boundaries. violence and abuse affect women from all walks of life. it should be noted that harassment and violence against women encompass a wide range of human rights violations. we must not only help prevent violence, but also provide specialist support services to victims of violence in an operational way. it is necessary to address the prevention and other issues related to the elimination of violence at national and all other relevant levels and in a comprehensive approach.
in writing. − we are constantly hearing about violations of the rights of women and girls: violence, rape, trafficking, sex slavery. statistics show that one in five women has experienced violence and one in ten has been raped. violence often limits women's freedom of movement. these systematic violations of women's rights in some parts of the world cannot be justified on the basis of cultural or religious beliefs. i voted in favour of this resolution prepared by the women's committee. it should be a rallying cry for eu member states and non-eu countries to come together to fight for the protection of women and girls. we must show that we have the means to combat all forms of violence against women. a great deal has been done at eu level with the adoption of directives on combating trafficking in human beings, on the sexual exploitation of women and girls, and on the protection of the rights of victims of crime. this resolution is therefore another example of the eu going beyond statements and taking legally binding action to enshrine the protection of women's rights. in doing so, the eu is setting an example of good practice not only for its neighbours but also for the world.
in writing. - violence against women is the scourge of our age. the statistics on violence are grim: one in five women in the eu has experienced violence and one in ten has been the victim of sexual harassment. male violence against women is a social phenomenon that is common to all social groups. today, €16 billion is invested in the eu in the rehabilitation and protection of victims of violence against women. it is important that the elimination of violence against women be a priority for the ep and the eu. i agree with the european commission that all member states should sign the eu convention on the prevention and elimination of violence against women and domestic violence in order to implement the eu package of measures against violence in all member states. i call on lithuania to sign this convention, which aims to combat violence against women as a serious violation of human rights. the main areas of this advanced convention are the prevention of violence, the protection of its victims and the prosecution of perpetrators. the convention provides a comprehensive and sustainable system for the protection and prevention of victims of violence, which would complement the legislation of the republic of lithuania. in the 21st century, we must not tolerate such human rights violations as violence against women. women must feel safe at home, at work and in public. i welcome the joint eu-un programme to combat violence against women.
on behalf of the ppe group a delegation from the subcommittee on human rights will shortly be visiting geneva, where the 22nd session of the un human rights council will begin on 25 february. the thematic priorities of the session are well known: freedom of religion and belief, the rights of the child, violence against women, the rights of the disabled. the session will discuss the situation in countries where the human rights situation is very difficult or even critical. syria, burma, the democratic people's republic of korea, mali and iran are on the agenda for the session. last september, 18 member states became new members of the human rights council, and today 9 of the 47 are member states of the european union. the new council president was remigiusz henczel, representing poland. navanethem pillay re-elected as united nations high commissioner for human rights for a second term. we have consistently supported her, stressing the importance of the independence of her office. in the resolution we are voting on tomorrow, we have set out the european parliament's position on the human rights situation in the countries of the arab spring, in particular syria, libya, yemen, the united arab emirates, bahrain, egypt, and we have also highlighted the most pressing problems and proposed ways of addressing them. an important part of the resolution is devoted to the role of the european union in the human rights council. we expect the eusr for human rights to be active and effective in the council and we also invite the high representative to participate in the so-called 'high-level segment'. and of course we expect the european parliament delegation to express our concerns and our position on all the issues raised in the resolution.
mr president, we have a request to have a split vote on paragraph 62. i would like to propose an oral amendment to that paragraph in two parts. the first part would be to add the words ‘be communicated to the european parliament’, and the second part to add the words ‘where possible’. paragraph 62, if amended, would therefore read as follows: ‘expects the development of eu human rights country strategies to be duly coordinated with eu action in the un forums; reiterates its recommendation that eu country strategies on human rights be communicated to the european parliament and be made public where possible in order to give visibility to the eu’s commitment to human rights in third countries and for those struggling for human rights to find support in these documents’. a split vote is not necessary if the text is adopted with that wording.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which supports the commission's proposal for a european innovation partnership, which promotes a new approach to ageing as an opportunity for the future, rather than a burden on society. the european union is currently undergoing demographic change. the eu population is ageing rapidly: the number of people aged 65 and over will almost double from 85 million in 2008 to 151 million in 2060. we need to encourage the eu, the member states, regions, cities and municipalities to adapt to the needs and (remaining) capacities of their ageing populations. the conditions for the active and healthy maturation and ageing of these people must also be ensured. when looking at ageing from a life-long perspective, it is clear that many life circumstances, conditions and events can influence the ageing process and its quality. furthermore, when thinking about the environment in a broad sense (including ecological factors, social and demographic and socio-economic indicators), it becomes clear that the human environment is one of the main determinants of people's ability to enjoy an active and healthy life well into old age, as well as to live independently for as long as possible. i therefore agree with the rapporteurs that the european commission must pay particular attention to the multifaceted relationship between the ageing population and its environment in order to ensure the long-term success of the european innovation partnership on ageing and health.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union is undergoing rapid demographic change, one of which is the ageing of the population. the number of people aged 65 and over is set to almost double from 85 million in 2008 to 151 million in 2060. in addition, the proportion of the population aged over 60 years was 20% in 2010 and is expected to rise to at least 35% by 2050. there are many factors that influence this demographic process. research has shown that there is a relationship between place and person, in other words, the conditions that characterize a place (environment) influence human maturation and aging. the importance of location in the relationship between man and the environment is often an important factor, as the environmental impact of the micro- and macro-levels must be taken into account. thus, in order to take account of the impact of micro and macro-levels, it is important to assess not only the built environment, access to (meat) transport and access to appropriate care and treatment services, but also the employment opportunities, the problem of health inequalities and the possibilities for social activism and management. environmental aspects (e.g. noise pollution, indoor and outdoor air quality) should also be considered. this is certainly not a quick and easy task, but it is a major step towards the eu 2020 strategy's goal of increasing healthy human life expectancy by two years by the end of the decade.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. it is a proposal for a european innovation partnership that promotes a new approach to ageing as an opportunity for the future, rather than a burden on society. it is considered that this approach should also include a clear and unambiguous strategy to promote social objectives without any stigmatisation or discrimination and to formally recognise the role of older people and the importance of their experience and contribution to society and the economy. adequate basic conditions for people to work longer and be productive need to be created, both by increasing labour market flexibility by ensuring lifetime working time and part-time work, and by providing suitable forms of employment contracts and flexible retirement regulation for older people, such as partial retirement or supplementary retirement schemes, ensuring that adequate social protection is always provided. it is emphasised that ageing must be seen as an opportunity rather than a burden and that the value of older people, their experience and their continuing contribution to society must be recognised and promoted. the commission's clear intention to promote the vitality and dignity of older people in europe through innovations relevant to them, to strengthen the culture of active ageing in a europe that is good for all generations and to shape this process together with recognised partners from the research community and civil society is therefore welcomed.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. given the socioeconomic developments in our society, especially demographic change, we need to take a closer look at the problem of ageing and promote a new approach to ageing. older people must be given the opportunity to participate actively in society and social exclusion must be prevented. in this context, it is necessary to modernise, improve and rationalise health and social care services, their quality and accessibility. it is essential that smes and social enterprises receive adequate funding. this will promote a sense of usefulness and need, and the ability to give and receive social support.
in writing. − statistics show that the current european union society is ageing. in 2010, people aged over 55 already accounted for 30% of all eu citizens. this is projected to reach 37% by 2030. the promotion of healthy and active lifestyles must become one of the eu's top priorities. we should not look for short-term economic solutions or save at the expense of the older generation, especially in the face of the current financial crisis. the number of elderly people in poverty is increasing, and this has a direct impact on their health. we cannot reduce funding for programmes in this area. this will not only permanently reduce the already poor quality of life of the elderly, but also increase the costs of care and treatment for the elderly in the long term. i voted in favour of this report because it contains provisions which will help to create a better, happier and healthier quality of life for older people. we must improve the conditions of the elderly, give them more opportunities to move. we must continue to promote the importance of older people's empowerment and solidarity between generations that the eu highlighted in 2012.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the aim of the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is to ensure that international trade in wild fauna and flora does not threaten the survival of species in the wild. the main causes of biodiversity loss today are wildlife exploitation, illegal trade in fauna and flora, habitat destruction, climate change and human depletion of natural resources. the commission should therefore ensure continuity of funding in its development assistance to achieve the objectives of cites, namely to continue the monitoring illegal elephant hunting (mike) programme, to ensure the protection of recorded marine species, to end the unsustainable and unethical trophy hunting that has led to a significant decline in the african lion population, and more. in addition, the commission and the member states of the european union should explore the possibility of providing long-term financial support to cites through the european development fund.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. cites is the most comprehensive global agreement in force for the conservation of wild fauna and flora, aimed at preventing the over-exploitation of wild fauna and flora in international trade. cites aims to ensure that international trade in wild fauna and flora does not threaten the survival of species in the wild. the eu and the member states are therefore encouraged to use the precautionary principle as a guiding principle in all decisions on working papers and proposals for cites annexes, taking into account in particular the 'user pays' principle, the concept of the ecosystem and traditional conservation principles. it also calls for a united position and for the speed and efficiency of internal decision-making procedures to be improved in order to swiftly agree on an internal eu position on cites cop 16 and to fully leverage the strength of all 27 eu parties to the convention to ensure that decisions at the 16th meeting of the parties to the convention are taken in accordance with the precautionary principle. the eu is called upon to take a leading role in protecting endangered species, to actively participate in the cites negotiations and to promote the closure of the convention's loopholes that are aggravating the situation. it is also desirable that the eu and the member states establish stronger links and alliances with third countries before and during the conference. it is desirable that the cites parties consider additional opportunities to enhance cooperation, coordination and interaction between the parties to the convention on biological diversity at all relevant levels.
in writing. − the eu's participation in the 16th meeting of the conference of the parties to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites) is another opportunity for the european union to show how the provisions of the eu treaties that state that the eu and its member states should have a united position in international organisations or at meetings of the parties to international conventions work. with up to 200 species disappearing every day worldwide, according to un data, it is important to ensure effective protection of endangered species. the continued failure of elephant conservation is of particular concern. the production of ivory as a nonessential commodity, when much cheaper alternatives exist, is an unjustified luxury. speaking with one voice is therefore the only way to achieve and ensure a unified eu position.
in writing. − i believe that decisions taken at cites should be based not only on scientific data but also on a strict adherence to the precautionary principle. it is also necessary to improve international cooperation in order to combat biodiversity loss from various causes more effectively. it is important to note that trafficking is a global problem, affecting all countries and all endangered species. the trade in wild animals is the second largest direct threat to species. over-exploitation of the flora and fauna can harm the livelihoods of poor countries. in view of this, it is necessary to establish a very strong regulatory mechanism at global level to control poaching and illegal trade in wild animals and plants.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for guidelines for the 2014 budgetary procedure. i agree that the institutions of the european union should continue to assume responsibility for the budget, its control and the responsible use of funds, given the difficult economic situation of the member states. however, it is essential that these savings do not undermine the quality of the institutions' core activities, compliance with legal obligations and investments in development. i agree that the 2014 appropriations should be based on a careful analysis of the use of appropriations in 2012 and 2013. the identification of duplication and inefficiencies and the application of strict budget planning and controls could help to achieve savings and improve the efficiency of the use of funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the light of the heavy public debt burden and the constraints of the ongoing consolidation of national budgets, the eu institutions should give serious consideration to the budget, its control and the use of the budgetary resources. it is important to note that no agreement has yet been reached on a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020 and that therefore no ceiling has yet been set for heading 5 of the eu budget for 2014. the various institutions, in solidarity with the difficult economic and budgetary conditions in the member states, should continue to limit or freeze their administrative budgets without compromising the quality of the core institutions' activities, compliance with legal obligations and investments in development. the european parliament believes that structural and organisational reforms should be pursued with a view to greater efficiency without compromising the quality of legislation and the quality of working conditions.
in writing. - i voted for this document. i supported the idea that the institutions should continue to limit or freeze their administrative budgets in solidarity with the member states' difficult economic and budgetary conditions, without compromising the quality of the core institutions' activities, compliance with legal obligations and investments in development. i also agree that the 2014 appropriations should be based on a careful analysis of the use of appropriations in 2012 and 2013 in order to save money.
in writing. − i believe that the eu institutions should reduce their administrative expenditure in view of the very difficult economic and budgetary conditions in the member states. however, this reduction must not affect the quality of the institutions' activities. structural and organisational reforms must be pursued with a view to greater efficiency, but not at the expense of quality legislation and quality of working conditions. i think that the european parliament has restricted the funds for translation and interpretation too much. this has affected working conditions, restricted the right of meps to express themselves in their own language and violated the principle of multilingualism. i do not support any form of hierarchy or subordination of the official languages in parliament. such regulation would prevent the ep from playing its role of democratic representation and democratic oversight. the role of the european parliament would also be greatly weakened, not only at european level but also at international level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on corporate social responsibility (csr), accountability, transparency and responsibility, and sustainable growth. csr is the responsibility of companies to integrate social, environmental and transparent business principles into their activities. this includes improving working conditions for employees, taking care of the environment, consulting the regional or local community on the activities carried out by the company. the proposal aims to contribute to the overcoming of the economic crisis in the eu, sustainable growth. i support the commission's proposals to raise awareness of csr and to disseminate good practice, and the calls for member states to provide csr education so that companies can fully integrate it into their organisational culture. i support the launch of broad consultations to identify and define csr strategies that meet the needs of smes, better integration of social and environmental aspects into public procurement procedures and the development of multilateral csr platforms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the process of globalisation and the creation of global markets are driving businesses to develop social and environmental standards, and because an increasingly aware and better informed civil society is demanding that businesses behave more responsibly. it is therefore important to develop and strengthen corporate social responsibility (csr), which could make a full contribution to transparency of information and a common code of good practice for regulatory activities. this would allow enterprises to take over the primary functions of public authorities in relation to the implementation and promotion and control of social and environmental standards. above all, any mandatory or voluntary initiative should not become an administrative or financial burden for smes and should be in line with the principle 'think small first'. i believe that the eu institutions should do more to promote the dissemination of csr in smes by supporting the role of intermediary organisations in order to facilitate the dissemination of information and good practice.
in writing. - i voted for this document. a new definition of corporate social responsibility has been proposed. it's the responsibility of companies for their impact on society. under the new definition, companies must follow a process to integrate social, environmental, ethical and human rights issues and consumer demands into their commercial and core business strategies. the objective of such a process should be to create shared value for owners and shareholders, other stakeholders and society as a whole, in order to identify, prevent and mitigate potential adverse impacts of the company's activities. the company's responsibility towards society, the environment and its employees creates a win-win situation and is necessary to expand the basis of trust that is essential for economic success.
in writing. - i support this resolution. in order to balance the interests of business and society, businesses should integrate social, environmental and transparent business principles more effectively. it should be noted that csr improves corporate governance and accountability, promotes corporate credibility, improves competitiveness, and attracts customers and investors. in order to help companies to conduct their business in a socially responsible manner, it is appropriate to further integrate social and environmental aspects into public procurement procedures. in addition, the liability of subcontractors should be increased and the minimum price criterion should not apply. as the eba is a very useful business management tool for smes, it is necessary to encourage its more active use. first, it is necessary to create an environment favourable to smes. they must be adequately protected against any increase in administrative or bureaucratic burden. special measures easily adaptable to their specific needs must be available to smes.
in writing. − this report underlines the necessity of effective corporate governance that in times of crisis is indispensable for a sustainable economic recovery and an efficient functioning of smes. corporate social responsibility (csr) should take into account environmental and social concerns and contribute to the society in a positive way. i welcome this report that positions the csr as a core element for responsible business behaviour and as a basis for sustainable growth and durable employment generation in the medium and long-term. i agree with the rapporteur on the strengthening of social responsibility, improvement of csr transparency and a clear opposition to all measures which would bring additional burdens on smes. in today’s recession smes have to play a strategic role in fostering the uptake of csr and in contributing to the social market economy. i consider that stable and healthy corporate governance should be improved in lithuania as well in order to stimulate the member state’s business environment and its administrative efficiency. i strongly believe that only socially responsible companies can be competitive, innovative, that only they can increase investor and consumer trust and create jobs and growth in lithuania in particular and in the eu as a whole.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the grounds of corporate social responsibility (csr), the protection of public interests and the pursuit of a sustainable and inclusive recovery. csr is the responsibility of companies to integrate social, environmental and transparent business principles into their activities. this includes improving working conditions for employees, taking care of the environment, consulting the regional or local community on the activities carried out by the company. the proposal aims to encourage businesses to create jobs for young people, to ensure occupational health and the sustainability of pensions, to promote living wages and to promote markets for environmentally friendly products. i support the proposals made on the inclusion of csr in core business school curricula, the promotion of csr in small enterprises and the need to explore proposals for business awareness initiatives with the business sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the proposals on corporate social responsibility (and other stakeholders involved) set out in the latest commission communication are an important foundation for building sustainable businesses and for economic recovery. this communication from the commission stresses the importance of gradually increasing corporate social responsibility and taking up business awareness initiatives as part of the 2013 european year of citizens. it is also proposed to explore the overall impact of csr on social and environmental issues and to conclude a new agreement with civil society. these are just some of the proposals that this report recommends to be explored with business and non-business actors to help achieve this objective.
in writing. − i voted for this document because i believe that it is a communication that is factual, forward-looking and adapted to the changes in corporate social responsibility in europe and the world. it provides a solid basis for further action. corporate social responsibility is a prerequisite for restoring confidence in business and for a sustainable economic recovery. the communication rightly stresses the importance of gradually increasing corporate social responsibility, of undertaking business awareness initiatives as part of the 2013 european year of citizens, of examining the overall impact of corporate social responsibility on the solution of social and environmental problems, in order to highlight the need to address these challenges without delay, and of concluding a new agreement with civil society. corporate social responsibility is the responsibility of companies for the impact they have on society, which is the impact that business and society together should seek most.
in writing. - i support this resolution. in particular, companies should be more active in re-thinking their business processes through the lens of sustainability, environmental impact and stakeholders. another important aspect is that csr helps to better align business and employee interests, motivate employees and save costs, and should therefore be more integrated into corporate strategies. given today's statistics, large companies should be more active in adopting csr practices that promote the responsible pursuit of profit. in addition, smes should be more actively involved in the dialogue on social responsibility. smes, with their very close links to the local area and their communities, can play a strategic role in this process. it is worth noting that the actions of social enterprises, especially smes, improve the lives of local communities and reduce the need for state involvement. it should be noted that the assessment of corporate social responsibility in each case requires not only an assessment of the current situation of the particular company on the basis of the sna indicators system, but also the behaviour of the companies in its supply chain and of all subcontractors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important that a member state faced with large-scale vat fraud has a rapid reaction mechanism that would improve its ability to effectively combat complex fraud schemes. it is worth noting that eu and national budgets suffer several billion euro losses each year as a result of vat fraud. for example, between june 2008 and december 2009, an estimated eur 5 billion was lost to value added tax fraud in the area of greenhouse gas emission allowances. the strategy currently used to combat vat fraud is slow and complex and does not allow the member state concerned to take the necessary action to put an end to the fraud. the rapid response mechanism would grant member states a derogation within one month. it is also envisaged that the derogation will be valid for up to one year. this would allow the member state concerned to start combating fraud almost immediately, pending the adoption of long-term measures. however, before any anti-fraud measures are implemented, the proposed measures must be properly investigated. this proposal would indeed enable member states to respond more quickly and effectively to vat fraud.
in writing. − billions of euros are lost every year to eu countries' budgets as a result of illegal vat fraud. vat fraud causes enormous damage to property, distorts competition and disrupts the functioning of the single market. we must therefore work together to find a cure for vat fraud. i believe that the vat rapid response mechanism is one of the most effective ways of preventing tax fraud. this allows states to respond flexibly to fraud and to combat complex fraud schemes more effectively. in particular, the states will be able to take certain emergency measures as a matter of urgency by applying the reverse charge mechanism. moreover, the speedier procedures and shorter deadlines will ensure a more effective fight.
in writing. − dear colleagues, in times of budgetary constraints and fiscal austerity, appropriate measures against vat fraud are really necessary. measures such as the quick reaction mechanism (qrm), as listed in this proposal, will enable member states to respond efficiently to vat fraud. the ‘reverse charge mechanism’ as well as other anti-fraud measures established under the qrm will improve the chances of ms to effectively tackle fraud schemes such as carrousel fraud and to reduce the possibility of irreparable and considerable financial losses for national and eu budgets. furthermore, the qrm will enable the member states to proceed faster, allowing them to counteract fraud immediately. i welcome this proposal and agree with all measures aimed at fighting tax fraud in the eu and safeguard public revenue. i consider that all member states, including lithuania, have to increase their efforts in fighting tax fraud and evasion which are harmful for a legitimate business climate. and i also think that the eu needs more structural changes to the vat systems in order to make the single market’s functioning more transparent, efficient and coherent. the enhanced fight against fraud now is a key element in maintaining the economic stability across its member states and the eu in general.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, following the crisis, most of the member states of the european union are experiencing an economic and financial recession. ensuring economic growth is essential to make public finances sustainable and to restore investor confidence. in other words, decisions specifically designed to overcome the current sovereign debt and financial crisis should be taken in conjunction with the implementation of growth-enhancing measures. in addition, efforts should be made to increase the competitiveness of the european economy and to restore confidence. while much remains to be done to achieve the objectives set, the growth-friendly approach would include fiscal consolidation, better public financial control, the reduction of excessive deficits and other similar measures that would help restore sustainable and effective fiscal policies in all member states. the eu budget plays a vital role across the european union in promoting growth and job creation and successfully reducing macroeconomic imbalances. it is also important to remember that in times of crisis, the eu budget is first and foremost an investment budget, with 94% of all funds being reinvested in the member states.
in writing. - i voted for this review. as i agreed with the substance of the 2013 annual growth survey presented by the commission. i believe that it is an appropriate instrument for the implementation of the 2012 european semester in general and the 2012 annual review in particular. i welcomed the greater clarity of the country-specific strategies that the commission has put forward, giving priority to progress in euro area countries and to progress that is more structural than nominal. the 2013 annual growth survey also recognises the need to maintain growth in order to overcome the crisis. i supported the idea that decisions specifically designed to overcome the current sovereign debt and financial crisis should be taken in conjunction with growth-enhancing measures to increase the competitiveness of the european economy and restore confidence.
in writing. − i would support proposals to defer fiscal consolidation and to allocate its implementation appropriately in line with the existing eu fiscal rules. the european investment bank and other instruments need to be significantly increased in lending and the agreement on growth and jobs needs to be translated into concrete investments without delay. to save, you must first earn. this is also the case in the eu, where despite the eu institutions' policy of tightening up the savings of the community's members, the economy has contracted. it is essential that decisions to overcome the crisis are taken in conjunction with the implementation of growth-enhancing measures. only in this way will the competitiveness of the european economy be enhanced and confidence restored.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is essential that the european council, at its meeting in march, takes seriously the recommendations proposed by the european parliament and adopts its policy guidelines on the economic and social situation in the european union for 2013. after five years of economic crisis and the return of recession in 2012, unemployment has reached its highest level in 20 years, the unemployment rate continues to rise, more people in work are pushed into poverty and social exclusion is widening. it remains to be regretted that the priorities set out in the european semester cycle last year, in particular those relating to job creation, job quality and the fight against poverty and social exclusion, have not produced the expected results. unfortunately, it was too late to realise the negative effects of austerity on employment and social policy as a whole, which increase poverty and social exclusion, and hinder economic and employment growth. and let alone the record high levels of youth unemployment in all eu countries. therefore, the fight against unemployment should be stepped up by investing more in people, i.e. in education and training, skills development, employability and social inclusion. it is essential to ensure that young people, especially our young people, have access to education and work, and the youth guarantee should be one of the means of rescuing young people from unemployment and poverty.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. since the last annual growth survey in 2012, the employment and social situation has deteriorated and the outlook for 2013 is pessimistic. the number of unemployed has increased by two million in the last 12 months. in many member states, labour market fragmentation continues to increase, long-term unemployment is at alarming levels and average household income is falling. national employment plans should therefore include detailed measures for job creation and green jobs, the link between employment policy and financial instruments, labour market reforms, a clear timetable for the development of a multiannual reform agenda over the next 12 months and references to areas and regions where skills shortages and surpluses are felt. i supported the need for employment policies that create favourable conditions for job creation, facilitate positive transitions from one job to another and from unemployment to employment, increase labour supply and improve geographical and skills matching of labour market needs in order to strengthen job-creating growth.
in writing. − the european semester process needs to ensure greater synergy between employment, social and economic policies. unfortunately, we have to admit that the priorities set last year in relation to job creation, job quality and the fight against poverty and social exclusion have not produced the expected results. in the face of economic and political turmoil, accompanied by the constant unemployment that accompanies it, we must make the key decisions as soon as possible on a concrete action plan to ensure a minimum level of social welfare. it is necessary to balance the adjustment burden and reduce macroeconomic imbalances. the correction burden cannot be different. it must be distributed equally between the deficit and surplus countries. another important aspect is the strengthening of the european parliament's positions through the european semester process. to address this democratic deficit, parliament should be given a full role in preparing and adopting the annual growth review, economic policy and employment guidelines.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on governance of the single market. starting as a financial crisis in 2007/2008, the current global economic recession is having enormous economic and social repercussions on eu citizens and businesses. this crisis has further revealed the stark mismanagement of sovereign debts in the union, in particular in the euro area. therefore to achieve tangible improvements, clearer and more stringent governance for the single market is needed. i agree with the rapporteur that for this purpose, it is pertinent to establish a transparent and predictable framework in which the possible negative and positive results of member states in the implementation and application are properly and regularly reflected. moreover, such a single market governance cycle should be integrated into every european semester. i believe that this would allow a regular exercise to be established to evaluate the completion of the single markets and address specific deficits in member states concerned, where necessary by way of country-specific recommendations. we need a better system for enforcing single market laws and monitoring their implementation to the benefit of citizens and enterprises in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the financial crisis has had a huge economic and social impact on the citizens and businesses of the european union. this difficult period has shown the need for stronger economic coordination and governance at eu level. the single market, as a key driver of economic growth and job creation, provides the basis for restoring competitiveness and boosting sustainable growth as envisaged in the europe 2020 strategy. the proper implementation and enforcement of these rules is more important than ever to help the economy recover effectively, but the statistics and the increasing frequency of infringement procedures are of great concern and clearly show that the full potential of the single market is still not being realised. clearer and more rigorous governance of the single market is therefore needed to achieve tangible improvements. to this end, it is appropriate to establish a transparent and predictable framework which takes into account, on a regular basis, the possible negative and positive results of implementation and application achieved by the member states. such a single market management cycle should be considered in the context of the european semester, which is not only looking at economic and budgetary aspects but also at employment aspects.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. a well-functioning and efficient single market, based on a highly competitive social market economy, is needed more than ever to achieve the recovery of the european economy and to boost growth and competitiveness and create new jobs. the common market should serve this purpose by providing a concrete response to the crisis while ensuring consumer safety and fostering social cohesion. it is therefore urgent to strengthen the governance of the single market and to improve the transposition, implementation and enforcement of its regulatory rules.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i believe that the basis of the single market should be a competitive social market economy, which ensures full employment and social progress. the governance and functioning of the single market need to be strengthened and improved. it must deliver tangible results for citizens, consumers, workers and businesses. it is therefore necessary to reduce the administrative, bureaucratic burden on smes. greater attention should be paid to member states which should improve the transposition, implementation and enforcement of single market rules. in addition, a separate single market recommendation should be drawn up for each country. a properly functioning and efficient single market must enable and stimulate economic growth, support enterprises and ensure freedom of choice for consumers.
in writing. − the current global economic crisis has revealed a big mismanagement of sovereign debts in the european union whose costs are enormous for businesses and citizens. nowadays the properly functioning single market can be the best tool to restore economic recovery and boost growth and jobs in europe’s crisis-hit economies. this report calls for the strengthening of single market governance by improving the transposition of single market legislation. good governance, better enforcement of the rules and legal clarity are needed in order to achieve a highly competitive market economy. i welcome this report that underlines the necessity of efficient transposition of eu legislation and consider that the single market will function better if all member states transpose union legislation to an equal degree. the more efficient transposition of eu legislation is, the better the use of the single market’s potential will be for the creation of economic growth and jobs and for the achievement of the eu2020 targets. this report is particularly relevant for lithuania: a well functioning single market will lead to a sustainable recovery that in turn will stimulate the regulatory business environment and open new opportunities for business and entrepreneurship in this member state.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union should strive to speak out against human rights violations in a unified common position. it is important to note that 18 new members from both european and global countries were elected to the united nations human rights council (unhrc) in september 2012 and that it has been carrying out its membership-related activities since 1 january 2013. nine eu member states are currently members of the un human rights council. the european union and the member states, by using their collective influence, could make eu action effective and efficient for those fighting for their human rights. as concrete examples show, it is essential to continue to provide comprehensive support to the syrian people, to secure the special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in belarus and to draw attention to the interregional support for the resolution, as well as to continue to monitor and provide support to the central african republic, where armed groups have attacked and occupied several towns in the north-east of the country, and to participate in other international actions of a similar nature. repression of individuals in any form must not be tolerated and must not be detrimental to the entire human rights system of the united nations. it is therefore necessary to ensure adequate protection against such intimidation through adequate funding and impartial implementation of the core support tasks.
in writing. - i voted yes. the resolution sets out the main guidelines for the eu's position at the 22nd un general assembly, the main issues and challenges, and suggestions for making the un general assembly more effective, but it is important to draw attention to the continuing deterioration of the situation in tibet in the context of the eu's active participation in the implementation of un human rights instruments. the difficulties in promoting tibetan culture, restrictions on freedom of speech and religion, human rights violations, the steadily increasing number of self-immolations in tibet were last discussed in parliament with the eu high representative, back in the summer. since 2009, nearly 100 people have committed suicide, including nearly 70 in 2012 alone. i think the unsc should consider sending an independent mission to tibet and the eu should support such a proposal.
in writing. − the european union's position in the un human rights council must be strengthened and more convincing. this requires greater coordination and cooperation between member states. respect for the universality and indivisibility of human rights, their promotion and protection must be a priority. a clear common position between the eu and the member states must be established, expressed in a single vote. the arab spring countries, where political instability and human rights violations are continuing, must be given the highest priority during the un human rights council session. it is noted that the situation in syria remains volatile, threatening the security of the entire region. the human rights situation in egypt, libya and western sahara should be given greater attention. another important issue is the extension or extension of the mandate of the special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in mali, the democratic republic of the congo, burma. in view of the important role played by the special procedures, more support should be provided and more resources and staff allocated.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the increase in the number of member states and the growing burden on the court of justice of the european union mean that national courts must use all the means at their disposal to improve the efficiency and speed of access to justice. the legal systems of the member states, despite their diversity, are based on common principles and have a common origin, and it is therefore necessary to provide the greatest possible opportunities for the exchange of experience and good practice between lawyers. the european parliament therefore proposes that the commission organise a forum, 'monthly congress on the development of a european judicial culture', this summer, where judges of all categories could meet and discuss the latest cases of legal disputes or difficulties, in order to stimulate discussion, establish contacts, establish channels of communication and build mutual trust and understanding. such a forum would provide a historic opportunity for competent authorities and experts, including universities and professional organisations, to discuss judicial training policies and the future of legal education in europe.
in writing. − i support this resolution because i am convinced that the promotion of the competences of the judiciary, particularly in the field of eu law, is a necessary condition for the uniform and smooth application of eu law throughout the european union. unfortunately, many judges, especially in the more recent eu member states, still do not apply eu law simply because they do not know it well enough. the result is poor quality of court decisions and an increasing burden on lower courts. i therefore urge the commission to adopt as soon as possible and eventually to start implementing a uniform programme for the upgrading of judges.
in writing. − high-level training of judges is essential. the training of judges and their access to justice must be continuously improved. training of judges is an integral part of improving judicial cooperation. training also contributes to strengthening the creation of a 'european judicial culture'. i think that there should be a single common knowledge management plan for judges. in addition, common standards of professional ethics are needed to ensure the independence and impartiality of the judicial system. it is also necessary to make more effective use of e-learning and the benefits of new technologies, in particular search engines.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2011 annual report of the european investment bank. i agree with the rapporteur that an increase in the eib’s capital approved by the 27 member states, which will strengthen the lending capacity of the eib to more than eur 60 billion, is a very positive step as the eib will be able to finance a larger number of companies and projects essential for economic recovery. with this resolution we, the members of the european parliament, send a strong signal indicating a way to promote growth in europe. particular attention is paid to the financing of smes and the social economy, also pointing to a reduction in regulatory burdens and increased transparency in the management of funds. europe needs to take active actions in order to increase inclusive growth and opportunities, to reinforce its innovation capacity and knowledge-based industry, to expand infrastructure investment and networks and to strengthen social, welfare and environmental policies. europe needs high profile job opportunities, an increased employment rate and better productivity. it is obvious that if we do not take any action, europe will have to face increased competitiveness from our trading partners.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the annual report 2011 of the european investment bank (eib). the bank's objective is to contribute to the implementation of the european union's priorities by selecting economically sound investment projects in the european union. the eib is a non-profit-making bank that complements the activities of commercial banks and the overall financial system in addressing market failures. the european parliament, in the light of the annual report, considers that the eib should contribute to the fight against corruption and lack of transparency in the eu member states and in non-eu countries where the eib operates. this bank should focus on access to loans for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and the impact of loans on the local economy, and publish information on the total amounts disbursed, the number of beneficiaries of the funds concerned, in particular smes. the eib should also support the eu member states most affected by the crisis by financing promising activities to boost employment and the recovery of growth. in addition, attention should be drawn to the need for cooperation between the eib and the structural funds in member states in difficulty in order to ensure sound and efficient public and private investment and the implementation of sound and efficient infrastructure projects.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i support the decision of the eib's governors to increase the bank's capital, thus allowing for an increase in borrowing. it should be noted that the economic crisis is not yet over and the unemployment rate is still rising, so the eib's role should only be strengthened. the eib has to help europe find a way out of the current situation. more attention should be paid to lending to small and medium-sized enterprises. this requires strengthening the eib's activities in support of sme financing, entrepreneurship and exports. i believe that the eib's lending facility for structural programmes should be expanded, as it helps countries in financial difficulty to attract the necessary investment. the transparency of eib activities in the provision of data on the projects financed must be further enhanced. in addition, an appropriate regulatory and institutional framework should be in place, as well as risk-based banking supervision. in order to avoid a deterioration of its loan portfolio, the eib should be prepared to respond promptly and implement appropriate measures to halt this process.
author. − mr president, sombath somphone, a prominent figure in social development in youth education, disappeared on 15 december 2012 in vientiane. the government of laos confirmed the incident as recorded on the security cameras and we are concerned that sombath somphone may be subjected to enforced disappearance, possibly related to his work. we express our deep concern about his safety and wellbeing. we call on the lao authorities to undertake prompt, transparent and thorough investigations in accordance with their obligations under international human rights law, and of course we call on the eu high representative to closely monitor these. finally we recommend that the authorities of laos should make enforced disappearance a criminal offence.
in writing. i would like to welcome the fact that after lengthy negotiations with the council, a decision has been reached on a guideline regulation for trans-european energy infrastructure. i am pleased that the agreement reached after the first reading has upheld the epp group's position. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the way in which he has managed to reconcile many different positions and find the best possible compromise. this regulation is an important step towards ensuring the full integration of the internal energy market. the regulation will modernise and extend europe's energy infrastructure and effectively connect cross-border networks. i am pleased that the council has agreed a balanced text: the functions of the regional groups are clear, the priorities and selection criteria for projects of common interest are clear, and the incentives for implementing projects are clear. all this will contribute to the efficient deployment of infrastructure at eu level. i would also like to stress that the regulation will ensure that energy isolated islands such as lithuania are connected to the common european energy grid, as currently such energy islands have no connections to other eu countries and most projects in these markets are not economically viable. i would like to stress that we cannot forget the question of funding, which will be dealt with in the legislation establishing the european infrastructure facility (eif). i urge that funding for energy projects not be reduced, as it is essential for the development of energy infrastructure. we all understand that energy and energy security are at the top of the political agenda at the moment. i invite everyone to take an active part in the vote and to support this important report.
commissioner, the commission communication on the comprehensive risk and safety assessment of nuclear power plants in the european union has shown that there are serious problems. that up to eur 25 billion will have to be invested in the coming years alone to bring existing nuclear reactors up to the required standards. the european union is currently facing another problem, namely when reactors operating in the european union have to be shut down. this will be a long and costly process. the current principle that nuclear safety should be the sole responsibility of the member state in which the nuclear power plant is operating or being closed is therefore incorrect. in the event of a disaster, the consequences would extend beyond the member state, and the states themselves do not have sufficient experience and resources to manage these processes. i would therefore urge the commission to review the principles of nuclear safety and liability and to establish a mechanism for supervision and liability at european union level.
commissioner, thank you for being here today and thank you very much for your active initiative on the use of stress tests in nuclear energy. i also congratulate the rapporteur on the good draft resolution he has drawn up and hope that it will be adopted. the european union must not lose its position and remain a world leader in high nuclear standards. the resolution reflects the consistent position of the european parliament on nuclear power plants in third countries, which must also be subject to the highest safety standards and to endurance tests. it is in the direct interest of the european union that russia and belarus carry out stress tests, as these power plants will have a potential negative impact on at least several countries of the european union. the current situation, with no consultation of affected parties, is very worrying. today my country celebrates its independence day. i hope that high standards of nuclear safety will also contribute to energy independence.
on behalf of the ppe group the european union is undoubtedly one of the global leaders in the fight against climate change. only in this palace is there a constant question of whether we are too ambitious and, more importantly, whether we are alone. however, certain decisions have been taken under the unfccc and the kyoto protocol, in this case on land use, land use change and forestry activities, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. in other words, the lulucf document. the european commission has proposed an ambitious project that includes accounting rules and many other things. these and other international commitments will sooner or later require action. however, we must not forget one of the fundamental principles of the functioning of european union law: proportionality. i have therefore stressed, both in the committee discussions and in the negotiations with the council, that this document, lulucf, should not impose an unnecessary administrative burden on either the member states or the farmers, so that double counting would be a burden. the document should also not include additional commitments that are not accounting but climate change mitigation measures. i am pleased that the final text of the document, which was agreed during the trialogue, took account of our greatest fears and confirmed that we would not require data from the member states at the main stage, which is not necessary under the un conventions, to introduce a uniform definition of forests, that we took account of the fears of the member states about the difficulties of including the management of pastures and crops. i thank the rapporteur for taking a step at the right time, one that is not too big for us and one that will not cause us to stumble. thank you for your cooperation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the regulation of energy infrastructure projects, which aims to accelerate the completion of the internal energy market and achieve the eu's energy policy objectives. the proposal aims to modernise and extend europe's energy infrastructure, to connect cross-border networks and to strengthen market integration and competitiveness and the integration of energy from renewable sources. this regulation lays down the infrastructure priorities and the procedures and criteria for projects of common interest, giving the competent authority in each member state the responsibility to coordinate the permitting process for projects, setting standards of transparency and the maximum duration of the permitting process. i support the proposals put forward to give the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators (acer) a greater role in ensuring the development of crossborder networks, the coordination of investments and consumer protection. i agree that it is necessary to establish a more efficient procedure for granting project authorisations and a single window principle that national authorities will have to respect when granting project authorisations. it is important that european coordinators are given specific powers to oversee projects experiencing implementation difficulties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the acceleration of the renewal of existing energy infrastructure and the development of new energy infrastructure is crucial to achieving the union's energy and climate policy objectives. for the union as well as for lithuania, the deployment of integrated networks and smart grids is of paramount importance in ensuring a competitive and well-functioning integrated market, in order to optimise the use of energy infrastructure, to increase energy efficiency and to integrate diverse renewable energy sources, and to promote growth, employment and sustainable development. the proposal defines nine priority geographical corridors and three thematic priority areas, sets out the rules for the classification of projects as projects of common interest (pis) and provides for one authority in each member state (one-stop-shop) to monitor and speed up the pip authorisation processes. the measures provided for in this regulation are intended to continue and complement the union's energy policy, namely to complete the internal energy market, to ensure security of supply, in particular in the gas and oil sectors, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20%, to increase the share of energy from renewable sources in final energy use to 20% and to increase energy efficiency by 20% by 2020. this will enable the union to adapt its infrastructure to further reduce carbon emissions in its energy system by 2050 and to prepare for the interconnection of regions with high renewable energy production capacity and electricity storage potential.
in writing. - i voted for this document. i see the new regulation as a positive and important initiative, as it aims to accelerate the completion of the internal energy market and to achieve the eu's energy and climate policy objectives. it is important because it can help to re-energize economic growth and job creation in the eu by attracting very significant investments. it provides for the modernisation and interconnection of energy networks. in the electricity sector, the aim is to strengthen market integration and competitiveness, system security and the integration of energy from renewable sources by addressing the problem of decentralised and non-transferable energy generation, by developing smart grids, by connecting installations to storage facilities and to power lines. in the gas sector, security of energy supply can be achieved through diversification of gas supply sources and routes, the deployment of lng storage and reverse pipelines. today, it is clear that we must strive for sustainable, safe, reliable and affordable energy for all europeans.
in writing. − the regulation adopted today is a key instrument for achieving the eu's energy policy objectives, in particular to ensure the functioning of the energy market, to ensure the security of energy supply in the european union and to promote the interconnection of energy networks, especially in those member states which are still energy islands. on the other hand, i am pleased that the debate in the european parliament has succeeded in strengthening the provisions on the environmental impact assessment of such projects in the document. i am convinced that any project must be carried out only if it is certain and guaranteed that no damage will be done to the environment.
in writing. − i support this report, as it is necessary to achieve full integration of the internal energy market, which would ensure security of supply and solidarity between member states. only by working together can we create a competitive cross-border energy market and modernise and fully extend europe's energy infrastructure. this will connect isolated regions, create additional energy supply or transmission routes and develop renewable energy sources. it is very important to establish a system of electricity transmission lines. the authorisation procedures should be understood. more attention should be paid to the implementation of projects of common interest. their regulation has been facilitated and their funding has been increased. it is worth noting that the baltic energy market's plans for the interconnection of the electricity and gas sectors are of crucial importance in order to decouple from a single supplier and to enhance regional integration and security of supply.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it established that the european commission, as the institution responsible for responding to complaints from eu citizens and helping to identify instances of maladministration by eu institutions, had infringed the ec treaty by failing to take action to ensure that austria's infringement was properly investigated. in 1999, the expansion of vienna airport was started and several construction projects were started. the commission has decided that an environmental impact assessment, as provided for in directive 85/337/eec, should be carried out. since the development permit had been granted and the project was due to be completed shortly, the objective of the directive could not be achieved and the commission therefore agreed not to continue the infringement procedure on condition that austria carried out an ex post environmental impact assessment which would be as close as possible to an ex ante environmental impact assessment. the complainants criticised the commission's actions and lodged a complaint with the european ombudsman. this communication constitutes a re-recommendation by the ombudsman to the commission.
in writing. - i voted for this report. as an institution, the ombudsman examines complaints from eu citizens and identifies instances of maladministration by eu institutions. in this case, the commission did not act on the infringement committed by austria. the commission concluded that an environmental impact assessment as provided for in directive 85/337/eec (the environmental impact assessment directive) should have been carried out. the commission also considered that the fact that the development permit had been granted and the project was almost completed and was due to be completed shortly prevented the objective of the eia directive from being achieved. in consultation with the austrian authorities, the commission agreed not to extend the infringement procedure on condition that austria carries out an ex post environmental impact assessment which is as close as possible to an ex ante environmental impact assessment and which allows a full assessment of the environmental impact of the projects. the complainants criticised the commission's handling of the case and lodged a complaint with the european ombudsman. this report constitutes a re-recommendation by the ombudsman to the commission.
in writing. − unfortunately, environmental impact assessment procedures do not work properly in many eu member states, no matter how mature their democracy. in addition to the maladministration which is the main cause of the irregularities referred to in today's resolution, i also see problems with the legislation. unfortunately, the legislation currently in force governing the ppps does not cover many matters which are left to the member states and which, as this case shows, end up in abuse by the institutions. i therefore believe that the adoption of the new eia directive should be accompanied by detailed guidelines for its implementation drawn up by the commission, which would not allow member states to deviate too far from the objectives of the directive.
in writing. − i agree with this resolution and the ombudsman's recommendation that the commission should review the strategy for handling the complainants' complaint about the violation concerning vienna airport and address the shortcomings identified. furthermore, complainants should be given the possibility to exercise the right of review. it is essential that this conflict of interest is resolved as soon as possible and that a solution based on universal consensus is reached. it is worth noting that we can deal with breaches of eu law in the member states on the basis of complaints from eu citizens. it is also necessary to ensure that the commission takes corrective action in a timely and expeditious manner in the event of an infringement of eu legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a european union-wide set of rules for accounting for greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions from land use and forestry (lulucf). the eu's greenhouse gas emissions are largely generated by energy production facilities, but a large proportion of emissions are stored in trees, soil, biomass and wood. the aim of this proposal is to integrate the lulucf sector into the eu's efforts to reduce ghg emissions, thus contributing to climate change mitigation, biodiversity conservation and sustainable resource use. i agree with the proposals here to align the accounting rules with the commitments and rules of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the kyoto protocol. it is important that accounting methodologies comply with recognised principles of transparency, comparability, completeness and accuracy. it is also necessary to examine the actions to be taken by member states to reduce ghg emissions in the lulucf sector, and the commission should provide guidance and technical assistance to that end.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to keep track of the implementation of land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) activities, which, among other things, create opportunities to contribute to climate change mitigation, adaptation, biodiversity conservation and sustainable use of natural resources. it is also desirable to ensure that accounting practices and methodologies are in line with the recognised principles of transparency, consistency, comparability, completeness and accuracy, not only within member states but also between them as members of the european union. the obligation to identify and account for emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases from the various land-use activities is an important step towards the inclusion of these sectors in the union's efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. - i voted for this document. it aims in particular to establish a legal framework of sound, harmonised, comprehensive and specific accounting rules for the land use, land-use change and forestry (lulucf) sector. i supported this proposal because it is ambitious and is based, among other things, on the need to establish a more robust accounting system to incorporate the recommendations of international agreements into eu law.
in writing. - i support this resolution. i believe that the agriculture and forestry sectors should be included in the eu's climate change commitments. those activities would contribute to limiting emissions of ghg and increasing removals from the atmosphere and enhancing the impact of changes in land use on the overall objective. in order to enhance climate change mitigation efforts and their visibility in agriculture, forestry and related sectors, a harmonised legal framework should be established to provide clear and robust rules for this sector. it should be noted that such regulation should not create an additional administrative burden.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the establishment of european union-wide rules for accounting for greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions from land use and forestry (lulucf). the main sources of ghg emissions are energy-producing facilities, but a large proportion of emissions are stored in trees, soil, biomass and wood. the aim of this proposal is to integrate the lulucf sector into the eu's efforts to reduce ghg emissions, thus contributing to climate change mitigation, biodiversity conservation and sustainable resource use. i support the proposals set out here to align the accounting rules with the commitments and rules of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change and the kyoto protocol. it is important that accounting methodologies comply with recognised principles of transparency, comparability, completeness and accuracy. it is also necessary to examine the actions to be taken by member states to reduce ghg emissions in the lulucf sector, and the commission should provide guidance and technical assistance to that end.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to simplify and strengthen the eu's greenhouse gas monitoring and reporting rules and to enhance the eu's credibility in relation to developing countries by providing transparent and detailed information on the types and amounts of aid provided. the proposed wording aims, inter alia, to help member states implement the climate and energy package, to improve the timeliness, transparency and comparability of data provided, to ensure compliance by the union and its member states with international monitoring and reporting obligations, including reporting on support to developing countries, to facilitate the development of new union climate change measures. the proposed mechanism will help ensure the harmonisation of the different objectives of the climate and energy package, and it also extends the scope of reporting and monitoring provisions to include the percentage of energy from renewable sources and the total final energy consumption.
in writing. - i agreed to this. timely, reliable and accurate greenhouse gas emissions data are crucial to knowing whether the eu and its member states are doing well enough to meet targets and develop proactive new policies to tackle climate change. the proposal therefore aims to simplify and strengthen the rules for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions in the eu.
in writing. − i support this resolution, as the mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other climate change-related information should function effectively at eu level. accurate and comprehensive monitoring, emission reporting and other climate change data are key elements for the effective implementation of international commitments. in order to ensure reliable and objective information, transparent, accurate and consistent reporting should be provided. however, in all cases, the principle of proportionality must be strictly respected in the data collection process. the commission should prepare reports based on the reduction of carbon dioxide. it should be empowered to request the necessary information from the member states and to verify its accuracy, timeliness and consistency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the creation of a european platform for the electronic settlement of disputes between buyers and sellers (esc). the proposal aims to establish rules that will enable buyers and consumers of services to benefit from a low-cost and fast out-of-court dispute settlement system in the european union. the alternative dispute resolution option already exists in some member states, but consumers are not very aware of it, with only 5% of consumers unhappy with their purchases having used it in 2010. the proposal aims to oblige eu countries to ensure this across all sectors and regions. to this end, a website (ges) will be created in all eu languages to allow electronic complaints about goods or services purchased online to be made throughout the eu. the website will also provide a selection of dispute resolution procedures. i agree with the suggestions made that the decision period should not exceed 90 days from the receipt of the complaint and that consumers should be able to access ges free of charge or for a symbolic fee. i believe that this system would make a major contribution to the promotion of e-commerce in the european union and would save millions of euros.
in writing. − for both consumers and businesses, e-commerce has many benefits ranging from lower prices and greater consumer supply to job creation. many consumers, especially younger ones, would find it difficult to imagine the absence of e-commerce services today. this shows the success and growth potential of this market. e-commerce is also growing and improving every day. in the last few years alone, remarkable progress has been made and, it must be acknowledged, such positive developments have been driven by measures taken to increase consumer confidence in the market for e-commerce and online services. electronic dispute resolution for consumer disputes is another step towards increasing trust in e-commerce. i believe that the creation of an electronic platform where all consumers can resolve disputes out of court and submit complaints online in all the official languages of the european union, when the recipient and the provider of the service are located in different eu member states, will make a significant contribution to the creation of a truly unified e-commerce area.
in writing. - i agreed to this. the legislation provides for the creation of a website, overseen by the european commission, where electronic complaints about goods or services purchased online can be made in all eu languages. the standard complaint form will be available to be filled in and the most appropriate dispute resolution scheme will be chosen. each stage of the dispute settlement will be visible online and the transfer of information will be protected by eu data protection rules. consumers and traders, especially small ones, feel insecure about online trading because they do not know where to turn when problems arise. this new regulation should therefore give them the confidence to buy and sell across the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on electronic dispute resolution for consumers, which aims to create an electronic dispute resolution platform. this document is closely linked to the directive on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes, which we have recently discussed. it is welcome that the notice specifies the specific time limits within which the dispute should be resolved, the legally binding or non-binding nature of the outcome of the procedure, etc. ensuring adequate consumer protection must be a constant pursuit. this not only encourages consumers to defend their rights, but also encourages both producers and service providers to avoid abuse and to provide quality goods and services to the market.
in writing. - i agree with the position that has been put forward. an effective functioning of the electronic consumer redress mechanism will ensure a well-functioning system of consumer protection at eu and national level. in particular, all obstacles to the settlement of disputes relating to the cross-border sale of goods by electronic means must be removed and the provision of services by electronic means must be ensured. these measures must be directed at the protection of the rights and claims of the individual already infringed. the electronic consumer dispute resolution mechanism shall be easily accessible and free of charge. the rules should be sufficiently flexible. i believe that the proper functioning of the procedures will not only benefit consumers, but will also stimulate the development of online commerce, create new opportunities for businesses and help the economy to grow.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the establishment of rules which will allow eu customers and consumers of services to settle disputes arising from the sale of goods or the provision of services by simple and inexpensive out-of-court means. consumers and sellers will be able to settle disputes over substandard goods with the help of neutral arbitrators (e.g. mediators, ombudsmen, complaints boards). the alternative dispute resolution option already exists in some member states, but consumers are not very aware of it, with only 5% of consumers unhappy with their purchases having used it in 2010. the proposal aims to oblige eu countries to ensure this across all sectors and regions. the commission will also develop an e-resolution platform (erp) to enable electronic complaints about goods or services purchased online to be lodged across the eu in all eu languages. the website will also provide a selection of dispute resolution procedures. i agree with the suggestions made that the decision period should not exceed 90 days from the receipt of the complaint and that consumers should be able to access ges free of charge or for a symbolic fee. i believe that this system would make a major contribution to the promotion of e-commerce in the european union and would save millions of euros.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a contribution by parliament to the adoption of the directive on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes. the lack of simple, inexpensive and appropriate means of dispute resolution is currently one of the obstacles facing many citizens in the european union. the losses to consumers from these problems amount to 0.4% of total eu gdp, but only 5% of consumers used adr in 2010. the eu treaty enshrines a high level of consumer protection as part of the free movement of goods and services. consumers will only shop in other member states if they know that there are problems with the goods or services they have purchased, and they will be able to defend their rights. entrepreneurs, especially smes, are also reluctant to carry out commercial activities in other member states, as they are reluctant to deal with the legal systems of other countries. the purpose of this directive is to address the problems of significant and persistent barriers to consumers and traders accessing the services of a well-functioning adr entity.
in writing. - i voted for this document. some eu countries already have alternative dispute resolution schemes, but consumers lack knowledge about them. the new directive obliges eu countries to provide this possibility in all sectors of trade and services. it will allow you to complain about goods or services purchased in a shop or online, no matter where in the eu you are. the disputes shall be settled within 90 days. the ep negotiators have ensured that the scheme is available free of charge or for a nominal fee. this directive is beneficial for both buyers and sellers. a low-cost and fast dispute resolution system is expected to save consumers millions of euros in the eu each year. it should also promote electronic trade between eu countries, which is essential for the growth of the european internal market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on alternative dispute resolution for consumers. we have emphasised the importance of consumer protection here in the european parliament on many occasions. the changes proposed by this communication will make it possible to resolve disputes concerning the sale of goods or the provision of services in the european union more quickly and easily. long redress procedures often discourage consumers from defending their infringed rights. as e-commerce expands, it is necessary to look for ways to simplify consumer protection. if we want to build a well-functioning eu legal system and ensure adequate consumer protection, we must work towards making dispute settlement simpler and more user-friendly. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that information on such dispute resolution methods is available to the consumer.
in writing. − i believe that this directive, by providing for alternative dispute resolution to litigation, will ensure a high level of consumer protection and contribute to the effective functioning of the internal market. however, this regulation must be consistent and simplified. uniform dispute resolution practices must be developed throughout the eu and the principles of efficiency, transparency and fairness properly implemented. first, consumer and business confidence in the system must be increased. consumers must be given the opportunity to defend their rights properly by lawful means acceptable to them. this will help them save money and ensure equal rights to compensation.
in writing. − consumer protection in the eu still has gaps, which are particularly evident when dealing with e-commerce cases. many of them either did not resolve their disputes completely or went through a rather lengthy legal process. the electronic dispute resolution platform is a welcome tool that will provide consumers and businesses with a one-stop-shop solution for resolving disputes outside the court system, based on the alternative dispute resolution (adr) platform. this will enable consumers and sellers to settle disputes over defective goods with the help of neutral arbitrators. they shall propose a solution within 90 days or assist the parties to the dispute in reaching a mutual agreement. general principles to be followed by all gas entities, including appropriate competence, impartiality, transparency, efficiency and integrity, and the enforcement of these principles to be monitored by national authorities. currently, out-of-court dispute resolution is only available in some business sectors or only in certain areas in the eu, and in 2010 only 5% of consumers who were dissatisfied with their purchases made use of this option. the gas format will be particularly important in member states where a large number of pending cases are concentrated and therefore citizens are not guaranteed their right to a hearing within a reasonable time. i agree with the report, which is a very welcome and necessary initiative to protect consumer rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to develop sustainable cooperation with the overseas countries and territories (octs) in the indian ocean, the caribbean, the atlantic ocean and the pacific ocean. these countries are directly confronted with new challenges (such as the globalisation of trade, new environmental challenges, risks associated with climate change) that europe must also help address. the octs' natural assets and the opportunities for activity in them can make these countries and territories a key component of the european union's strategies and an innovative element in international negotiations. the current octs-european union association decision (oda) of 2001 establishes the legal framework for promoting octs' economic relations with the eu and octs' social and economic development. this decision shall expire on 31 december 2013. it is intended to renew and strengthen regional cooperation and support the octs as the eu's neighbours in the advanced countries and territories in the regions where they are located, and to promote the participation of the octs and their neighbours in the various fora.
in writing. - i support this resolution. although these countries are outside the eu customs territory and the single market, their citizens have eu citizenship, which requires effective and consistent cooperation. i believe that priority should be given to cooperation in areas of mutual interest in order to ensure sustainable economic and social development. this new agreement should provide a basis for increasing their competitiveness, meeting their needs, taking into account their specificities and differences. it should be noted that austerity policies have had a particularly strong impact on employment. this has had a negative impact on octs' cooperation with the eu in the implementation of public investment programmes. in this context, there is a need to strengthen regional cooperation and support octs and to promote their participation in eu communication programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive laying down general public health requirements relating to radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption. the aim is to incorporate the requirements and methods for monitoring these substances (radon, tritium, etc.) in order to maintain the uniformity, coherence and completeness of radiation safety legislation. i agree with the suggestions made here that, in order to ensure effective and consistent protection of public health in europe, it is necessary to incorporate in the directive the differences identified by the international commission on radiological safety between natural and human sources of radioactivity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the provision of safe drinking water to european citizens is one of the most important concerns of policies relating to human health and the environment. the quality of drinking water is currently regulated by council directive 98/83/ec (qd), including the regulation of pollutants such as toxic chemicals and radionuclides. however, the requirements for the monitoring of the tertiary and general indicative dose have not yet been implemented, despite the fact that member states had to comply with the drinking water directive by 2003. the commission's proposal aims to include the relevant requirements not in the csfs but in specific legislation based on the euratom treaty. it is important to establish requirements that ensure uniformity, coherence and completeness of radiation protection legislation in the determination of the parametric values, frequencies and methods for radioactive substances, i.e. radon, tritium and other radioactive substances.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. it aims to incorporate requirements for the monitoring of radioactive substances into specific legislation adopted under the euratom treaty in order to maintain the uniformity, coherence and comprehensiveness of radiation safety legislation at community level. it is a specific measure for monitoring the level of radioactivity in water intended for human consumption, with the aim of achieving a public health objective.
in writing. − in a european union with a high level of environmental protection, the quality of natural elements, especially those used by humans, must also be ensured. this is not the first time that the european commission has tried to justify lower environmental standards with the euratom treaty. i am convinced that the determination of water contamination by radioactive substances should not differentiate between different sources of contamination. i therefore support the resolution and the proposals contained therein to change the legal framework to ensure better quality of drinking water.
in writing. − i agree with the proposals presented, as there is a need to set clear and strict requirements for radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption. water is essential to man. human-induced radioactivity is a difficult problem to solve. radioactive substances are usually introduced into water by improper handling of radioactive waste. in view of this, the polluter pays principle and the pollutant brake conditions must be strictly applied in the case of man-made pollution. the damage that occurs must be covered by the perpetrator, not by the water user or the public. in order to maintain a high level of consumer protection, the quality requirements for mineral water should be as stringent as those for tap water.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the adoption of two pieces of legislation, the so-called 'two-pack' legislation, which would give the european commission greater powers to control the national budgets of the euro area countries. the aim of the proposal is to ensure financial stability and economic growth in the euro area by providing for measures to prevent excessive government debt. to this end, euro area countries will be obliged to submit annually to the commission their draft national budgets for the following year for evaluation. the commission will have the right to ask the member states to amend them if necessary. the surveillance of countries in economic recession will also be strengthened. i support the proposals set out to ensure that countries do not reduce their national budgets at the expense of investment in education, health and economic growth. it is also necessary to strengthen transparency and democratic accountability, and i therefore support increased oversight of the commission, the european central bank and the international monetary fund in countries experiencing economic difficulties following economic reforms. i am in favour of setting up a group of experts to assess the pros and cons of the debt relief fund and the euro notes. i agree that the commission should propose the relevant draft legislation as early as 2014 on the basis of its conclusions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the context of the ongoing financial and sovereign debt crisis, the proposal to strengthen economic and budgetary surveillance in member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to financial stability in the euro area is of great relevance. excessive government debt can have serious consequences for all member states of the european union and therefore a member state whose currency is the euro should be subject to stricter supervision if it is experiencing or is at risk of experiencing serious financial difficulties. this would ensure a rapid return to normalcy and protect other euro area member states from possible adverse side effects. in order to respond quickly, the decision-making procedures are to be adjusted. it is also proposed to create a legal protection system for member states at risk of default or default in the near future. in such a case, the commission could, after consulting the council, decide to apply this legal protection regime to the member state, inter alia by suspending the contractual provisions on final set-off or credit events.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the economic and budgetary surveillance procedures developed by the european union and the euro area member states in response to the economic and financial crisis that began in 2008 need to be broadly adopted in the light of the social and economic problems that this crisis has created. the deteriorating global financial situation has led to a sharp slowdown in growth in the union and serious financial difficulties for the member states. coordination of economic and social policies between member states can help to address these problems. the proposal therefore aims to apply stricter supervision to a member state whose currency is the euro if it is experiencing or is at risk of experiencing serious financial difficulties. this should ensure a rapid return to normal and protect other euro area member states from possible adverse spill-over effects.
in writing. − it should be noted that the financial crisis has clearly revealed the interrelationship between sovereign debt, financial stability and bank solvency. the coordination of economic and social policies must be in line with the democratic principles of the eu. in order to restore a sound and sustainable economic and fiscal situation in countries experiencing severe financial difficulties in a timely and operational manner, the provisions on enhanced economic and budgetary surveillance and enhanced economic policy coordination should be applied with the utmost care, after analysing all potential threats and carrying out a comprehensive assessment for each country. the application of surveillance measures must take account of more than the budgetary situation of the member states and the investment forecasts. it is essential that the commission acts expeditiously and that the alert mechanism is put in place in a timely manner to prevent adverse consequences. in addition, countries experiencing particularly severe financial stability difficulties should also take certain measures. in particular, they should identify measures to address the causes of the difficulties and develop macroeconomic adjustment programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the adoption of two pieces of legislation, the so-called 'two-pack' legislation, which would give the european commission greater powers to control the national budgets of the euro area countries. the aim of the proposal is to ensure financial stability and economic growth in the euro area by providing for measures to prevent excessive government debt. to this end, euro area countries will be obliged to submit annually to the commission their draft national budgets for the following year for evaluation. the commission will have the right to ask the member states to amend them if necessary. the surveillance of countries in economic recession will also be strengthened. i support the proposals set out to ensure that countries do not reduce their national budgets at the expense of investment in education, health and economic growth. it is also necessary to strengthen transparency and democratic accountability, and i therefore support increased oversight of the commission, the european central bank and the international monetary fund in countries experiencing economic difficulties following economic reforms. i am in favour of setting up a group of experts to assess the pros and cons of the debt relief fund and the euro notes. i agree that the commission should propose the relevant draft legislation as early as 2014 on the basis of its conclusions.
in writing. − i voted for this report because budgetary surveillance should always be one of the eu's main objectives in terms of promoting a high level of employment and ensuring adequate social protection. it is important to strengthen budgetary discipline across the eu by setting additional requirements for the monitoring of national budgetary policies, a common budgetary timetable and closer monitoring of budgetary decisions by member states subject to the excessive deficit procedure. the regulation on the effective enforcement of budgetary surveillance in the euro area provides for additional enforcement measures, namely financial penalties for member states. it is also important that eu budgetary policy is fully aligned with the new strategy for jobs and growth europe 2020, which aims to help the eu overcome the crisis and steer the eu economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, ensuring high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion.
in writing. - i abstained on this document. however, i do agree that there should be additional union instruments to coordinate and monitor the budgetary and economic policies of the member states. however, due care should be exercised at all stages and no material relating to the issuance plans of member states' debt securities, the extension of the maturity of outstanding debts or other significant transactions should be made public and should be used for internal coordination purposes only.
in writing. − to improve the performance of budgetary and economic policies, it is necessary to ensure that the budgetary procedures of the member states are compatible with the economic policy coordination framework. the tightening of budgetary and economic policies and the introduction of additional monitoring requirements require a thorough analysis, with particular attention to promoting employment and ensuring adequate social protection. i think it is appropriate to establish a common budgetary timetable. the procedures for monitoring and evaluating draft budgetary plans in the member states shall be in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in addition, national budgets must be compatible with the economic guidelines.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the creation of a european venture capital investment sector for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the proposal aims to establish a legal framework under which the status of 'european venture capital fund' and the 'venture capital passport' can be granted to different types of investment funds. it sets out the criteria that the fund must meet in order to do so, the requirements that the managers of the venture capital fund must meet and the investment limits that are imposed on the use of the fund's assets. i support the proposals that the european venture capital fund should be obliged to invest 70% of the capital provided by its sponsors in smes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because venture capital funds stimulate economic growth, help create jobs and attract capital, encourage the creation and development of innovative companies, increase their investment in research and technological development and promote entrepreneurship, innovation and competitiveness, in the light of the objectives of the eu's europe 2020 strategy and the long-term challenges facing the member states as set out in the european strategy and policy analysis framework report 'world trends 2030'. in the absence of a common framework, there is a risk that member states may take different measures at national level, which would have a direct negative impact on and create obstacles to the smooth functioning of the internal market, as venture capital funds wishing to operate across the union would be subject to different rules in different member states. in this context, it is necessary to establish a common framework of rules on the use of the designation 'european venture capital fund', in particular on the composition of the portfolio of funds operating under that designation, their eligible investment vehicles, the investment instruments they may use and the categories of eligible investors who are entitled to invest in such funds under uniform rules throughout the union.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. as venture capital provides financing for companies that are typically very small, in the early stages of their formation as legal entities and with significant growth and expansion potential. in addition, the venture capital funds provide these companies with valuable experience and knowledge, business contacts, and advice on brand value and strategy. by providing finance and advice to those undertakings, venture capital funds promote economic growth, help create jobs and attract capital, encourage the formation and development of companies, increase their investment in research and technological development and promote entrepreneurship, innovation and competitiveness in the union.
in writing. − i support this resolution because venture capital funds are a source of economic growth. the elimination of distortions of competition is necessary to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market. a reliable and stable environment for investors must be created. in addition, smes have been strengthened in their growth and innovation. specific safeguards should be established and an efficient european venture capital investment sector for small and medium-sized enterprises should be established.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the creation of a sector focused on investing in legal persons engaged in non-profit-making activities aimed at achieving various objectives of a social nature. the proposal aims to establish a legal framework under which the various types of investment funds can be granted the status of 'european social entrepreneurship fund' and the corresponding passports. it sets out the criteria that the fund must meet in order to do so, the requirements that the managers of the venture capital fund must meet and the limits on investments that are made using the fund's assets. all new european social enterprise funds should clearly publish information on the types of targeted social enterprises, their selection methods and the ways in which the fund supports social enterprises. the rules applicable to social investment funds still vary from one member state to another and are often complex. i agree that the new proposal should simplify them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, as investors increasingly look beyond financial returns to social objectives, a market for social investment is emerging in the union, including investment funds targeting social enterprises. such investment funds provide funding to social enterprises that promote social change by offering innovative solutions to social problems, helping to overcome the social consequences of the financial crisis. different levels of investor protection and confusion regarding investment proposals linked to the european social entrepreneurship fund can arise due to different quality requirements for portfolio composition, investment objects and eligible investors. it is necessary to establish a common framework of rules on the use of the designation 'european social entrepreneurship fund', in particular on the composition of the portfolio of funds operating under that designation, their eligible investment vehicles, the investment instruments they may use and the categories of eligible investors who are entitled to invest in such funds under uniform rules throughout the union. it is also necessary to remove the significant obstacles to the cross-border mobilisation of funds by european social entrepreneurship funds, to avoid distortions of competition for those funds and to prevent any additional potential barriers to trade and significant distortions of competition in the future.
in writing. - i said yes to this proposal. as investors increasingly look beyond financial returns to social objectives, a market for social investment is emerging in the union, comprising investment funds targeting social enterprises. such investment funds shall provide funding to social enterprises that promote social change by offering innovative solutions to social problems, by helping to overcome the social consequences of the financial crisis and by providing valuable support to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. this regulation should therefore lay down uniform rules on the nature of european social entrepreneurship funds. it is necessary to ensure the financing of undertakings providing social services or goods to vulnerable or marginalised persons in order to promote and ensure equal access to those goods and services. such services include, inter alia, the fight against poverty, housing, health care, assistance to the elderly or disabled, childcare, access to education, including pre-school education, employment and training, as well as addiction management, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the european social entrepreneurship funds. the proposal aims to create a european sector focused on investing in legal persons engaged in non-profit-making activities pursuing various social objectives. in this case, the aim of having a social impact by involving staff is welcome, which would also ensure the use of liquid funds.
in writing. − i support this resolution because it is necessary to create safe and reliable funds to support the development of social enterprises in europe. these funds should be open not only to large investors but also to smaller investments. it is essential to provide adequate funding and to ensure better access to the capital needed, as social enterprises are an emerging sector in the eu. social enterprises must have a real social impact and contribute to the europe 2020 objectives. they shall offer innovative solutions to social problems and contribute to the creation of an efficient social investment market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report in the light of the fact that the crisis has led to a deterioration in the current situation in the area of gender equality, an increase in the risk of gender-based violence and poverty among older women, and a deterioration in the health of mothers and children. women are currently suffering the effects of measures taken by governments to reduce the general government deficit. women in the public sector are the most affected by budget cuts. in some member states, the number of employees in the civil service has been reduced by 25%. the various cuts in social benefits and the budget allocated to social infrastructure, education, childcare, healthcare and care of dependent persons have led to a shift of work in this area to the home, and in particular to women who have to leave paid work or reduce their working hours to perform work that the state no longer performs or can no longer afford. it is therefore necessary to consider the possibility of further adapting the structural funds to current conditions in order to provide additional support to the areas of women's employment likely to be affected by the crisis and to support in addressing childcare, training and employment opportunities. the commission's proposals on gender balance in management are also a step in the right direction. in addition, budget cuts should not be a reason to reconsider funding for associations and programmes to combat violence.
in writing. - i agreed to this. gender equality is one of the main objectives of the european union. in addition, gender equality must be a key consideration in decision-making in the current economic and financial crisis, including investment in the public sector, social security sector and environmentally sustainable housing, transport, etc., as well as the collection of public revenues through more effective tax policies. the gender impact of the crisis was not recognised, analysed and harmonised in policy decisions on the crisis, including recovery plans. the role of women is crucial to overcome the crisis, and on this basis the proposals on gender balance in management positions are a step in the right direction. it is also a set of measures that should be taken to improve the position of women in society, so that they can participate more fully in political and economic decision-making.
in writing. − gender equality is one of the fundamental human rights. the pay gap, which is particularly pronounced in the context of the economic crisis, should be equalised as far as possible between men and women, and the growing gap between men and the more socially vulnerable groups of women should be immediately reduced through various funding mechanisms. support through funding, education programmes and training is one way of reducing the direct and long-term impact of the economic crisis on women.
in writing. - i support this resolution. i believe that the general principle of equality between men and women should be the basis for the approach to all policy areas. women's social and economic justice should be ensured. attention should be drawn to the fact that austerity measures are detrimental to the welfare state, increase disparities in society, and create greater social and economic inequalities. it is essential that the new response to the economic crisis does not have a negative impact on social protection policies and public sector structures. in order to improve the reconciliation of work and family life at sectoral, national and regional levels, greater efforts are needed to develop childcare systems. the public network of childcare and leisure services should be expanded.
in writing. − the savings measures taken by member states during the crisis have had the greatest impact on the service and public sectors, which have traditionally been dominated by women. one third of women work part-time, accepting work on business licenses, working for minimum wage to earn some income to support their family, and later this choice of women is reflected in the size of their pension. another problem is that women are paid 16 to 17% less than men for the same work. after a baby is born, a woman's income typically drops by 12 percent. moreover, women often choose to take on less responsible responsibilities so that they can care for their family while working. i agree with commissioner reding that we must take measures today to ensure that childbearing and raising children and caring for the family do not lead to women's poverty in the future, because the family puts women at risk of their social security and pension throughout their working lives. today, as many as 60% of women in the eu have a higher education and 60% of women are in the labour market. we invest a lot in girls' education, but we also need to invest in their participation in the labour market. we need to promote female entrepreneurship. i support this report and congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent report. the crisis has highlighted the factors behind the decline in the position of women. equality is not just a word in the law, gender equality must become a reality.
in writing. - i agreed to this. throughout their lives, women and men are influenced by gender stereotypes in their thinking, from expectations about how boys and girls should behave in primary and secondary school to specific expectations later in life about career choices and their representation in the labour market. the negative gender stereotypes that underpin societal beliefs and attitudes and their prevalence have a negative impact on women and consequently limit their opportunities and choices in the social, economic and political spheres. i therefore support the successful use of the european social fund (esf) for long-term strategies to enable women to learn more about the labour market sectors where they are under-represented due to gender stereotypes and thus to make them more attractive. strategies should include affirmative action, lifelong learning and encouraging active girls to choose studies in areas that are not traditionally considered female-centred, such as information technology or mechanics, and should support work-life balance measures for men and women.
in writing. − discrimination on any ground affects all sections of society. gender stereotyping in the media and culture, especially for women and girls, is still very common. it is therefore necessary to ensure the greatest possible balance between the information transmitted through the various media channels, which has a significant and sometimes harmful impact on children and adolescents. strengthening the family institution, adequate education of children in schools and accountability of public opinion-makers should contribute to the solution of this problem, which still exists in the eu.
in writing. - i support this resolution. in particular, gender discrimination in the media, communication and advertising must be eliminated. i believe that the ban on the depiction of girls and women as sex objects should be strictly enforced throughout the eu. this cannot be used as a sales incentive. we must not tolerate any sexist abuse or any degradation of women as sex objects in the media. women and men should have equal opportunities, rights and responsibilities in all areas of life. it is also important that the current social protection systems and the various eu social, economic and employment policies are not designed to meet the needs of women.
in writing. − gender equality is one of the fundamental rights enshrined in the treaty of rome. stereotypes are a huge obstacle to the exercise of this right. let's think about advertising, and even laundry and cleaning products -- traditionally, these products are advertised by women. advertising that targets men often also portrays women as objects of temptation. aren't those stereotypes? the media needs to be more responsible about stereotypes, because they play a big part in shaping how society thinks men and women should be. the study by the european institute for gender equality is shocking because it shows that we are very stereotypical. women face a great deal of discrimination in the labour market because the main factors in hiring a woman are: firstly, whether she has children; secondly, whether she will be able to work overtime; thirdly, her appearance and only in the fourth place is her professional competence; and, in the case of a man, his professional abilities and only in the tenth position is the question of children. negative gender stereotypes, based on beliefs and attitudes common in society, have a negative impact on women and limit their participation in social, economic and political life. i agree with this report and i think that the eu's help in breaking down stereotypes is very important.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the high number of breaches of environmental legislation and the number of complaints about them reflect the insufficient level of implementation of environmental legislation. in 2011, the eu recorded the highest number of infringements of community law (299) in the field of the environment. a high level of environmental protection is one of the european union's key objectives, and achieving it would bring direct benefits to citizens, such as improved air quality, reduced noise and reduced health problems. full implementation of eu legislation would create 400 000 jobs a year in the waste sector alone and save €72 billion. in order to ensure that citizens better understand, support and cooperate with eu environmental policy and that it is compatible with local government policy, it is essential that information and transparency standards regarding the application of environmental legislation and eu rules are high. it is also important that environmental issues are always addressed in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, as citizens and residents of the member states are best placed to decide what is most appropriate to prioritise in their local neighbourhoods, and member states should improve information flows and transparency by exchanging information more actively and frequently.
in writing. − i supported this proposal because petitioners often raise concerns in certain areas of environmental policy, such as landfill and waste disposal, wildlife habitats, and air and water quality. public authorities must be accountable and open to citizens. member states are encouraged to take all necessary measures to protect the environment and promote sustainable development, while taking into account the need for a healthy and competitive economy. i believe that the best balance between the needs of people and their environment is the local community. the principle of subsidiarity must always be respected when environmental issues are addressed, wherever possible, as citizens and residents of the member states are best placed to decide what is most appropriate to prioritise in their local area. it is recognised that over-regulation of eu environmental legislation can have a negative impact, as it can make it less acceptable. member states are encouraged to find out if it is really necessary to commit more than what is required under eu directives if they wish to do so. it is vital for the eu to develop new clean energy production capacity and to invest in technology that can provide alternative energy sources. this cannot be done without some impact on the environment and therefore the eu and the member states are encouraged to take measures to avoid negative environmental impacts.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because i am convinced that the potential of eu legislation in the field of environmental policy is currently not fully exploited. i would like to draw attention to two different but closely related aspects of this issue. first, i believe that it is necessary to create as soon as possible a single and public platform providing comprehensive information on the various environmental parameters in different areas of the eu. on the other hand, it would only be a first step towards encouraging eu citizens to take part in the solution of their environmental problems. local and regional authorities and municipalities are currently not sufficiently involved in the consideration of these issues, and the instruments for ensuring citizen participation (such as environmental impact assessment) are also not sufficiently effective. so i think that eu environment policy is an area where there is still a lot to be done.
in writing. − i support this resolution because environmental protection is one of the eu's key objectives. the proper implementation of legislation will benefit not only the member states but also society at large. it is worth noting that the costs of not implementing eu environmental legislation are enormous. i believe that the eu should have uniform and strict rules on legal liability for environmental damage and corporate social responsibility. effective implementation of legislation and enforcement of enhanced accountability are necessary to protect the environment and promote sustainable development. in particular, eu environmental law measures must be coordinated and complementary. dialogue with all stakeholders, including local and regional authorities, should be encouraged. mechanisms should also be in place to help local and regional authorities exchange best practices in policy implementation. it is also necessary to reduce the administrative burden and costs associated with environmental legislation.
agricultural policy in the new period should have a much bolder breeze and more justice. a bold change in policy would be needed to make it equally fair to farmers in the new member states. the level of direct payments in the european union must be determined on the basis of objective criteria which ensure transparency of the level of support and fair competition. and although, as mentioned here, there have been dozens of meetings, hundreds of amendments, it is very regrettable that the aim of establishing a fairer distribution of direct aid among the member states still remains unfulfilled. the proposed methodology and transitional periods suggest that injustice towards countries like lithuania can be tolerated for some time.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank you personally for the really great work you have done in this area. i am one of the baltic states and therefore i also want to reiterate clearly that we are very unhappy with this proposal, which was fundamentally very bad back in 2007-2013. our farmers were forced, some even by some of the unfair agricultural policies at the time, to abandon direct payments or to abandon farming. and today we have massive emigration and migration flows. i therefore hope, commissioner, that you will understand our problem and that the real unification will begin in 2014. and that is why we all share the common objective, perhaps, that no member state should receive less than 75% of the european union average in 2019.
in writing. i would like to draw attention to the large differences in direct payments to farmers in the baltic states compared to other eu member states. our farmers compete with farmers in other eu countries on a common market for production, labour and agricultural raw materials, but the direct payments received by baltic farmers are well below the eu average, while production costs are almost the same. so, for tomorrow's vote, the baltic representatives - lithuanians, latvians and estonians - together with the other members of the european parliament have tabled an amendment on direct payments for the vote in plenary, which i hope the european parliament will support. because if the baltic farmers were given a level playing field and fair support, the agricultural sector in the baltic countries would become viable and could participate and compete on equal terms in the common agricultural market.
in writing. president in this important debate on the role of the common policy, it is necessary to underline the need for an effective and strong cap to enable the european union to produce high quality food and to support employment in the agricultural sector. the wfp should be based on simple rules that are understandable to farmers and beneficiaries. this guarantees financial transparency and, most importantly, reduces costs and administrative burdens. it should be borne in mind that farmers in the member states are able to meet the relevant requirements and obligations without excessive bureaucracy. to that end, member states should be allowed to introduce a simple system for small farmers. for such farmers, member states should have the right to introduce lump sum payments or fixed annual payments. it should also be possible to introduce legislation to simplify the formalities for small farmers in relation to the submission of applications and the granting of support. rolnicy whose annual payments do not exceed eur 2000 should be automatically included in the supplementary payment system. but what i want to draw particular attention to is the incomprehensible and unfair way in which farmers from the new member states are treated when there are drastic disparities in direct payments between them and farmers from the so-called old union. everything must be done to put an end to this new discrimination within the community, which violates the treaty's principle of equality and european solidarity.
i would like to welcome the initiative of the european parliament and its concern about endocrine disrupting substances. the large number of studies and the evidence they provide warrant the urgent need to address these worrying trends, as they are evident in the increasing number of cases of endocrine disorders and diseases in humans. it is important to note that we are constantly exposed to endocrine-disrupting substances in our daily lives, whether in food packaging, skin care products or cosmetics, as well as in building materials, electronic goods, furniture, floor coverings and other products. however, as we all know, information on the substances contained in certain products is often not available to individual consumers, especially where the ingredients of the product are not specified. this is a serious problem, because even the most conscientious europeans are unable to protect themselves or their loved ones. so today, as events and discussions on world consumer day have begun in a large number of european union countries, i invite you to support the provisions of the resolution on reducing the exposure of humans to endocrine disrupting substances, and in particular to support the call for the commission and the member states to pay more attention to the need for consumers to receive reliable information in a language they understand and in a form they can accept about the health risks, effects and protection of these substances. we need to educate an informed, conscious consumer, and i hope that this resolution will contribute to that goal.
on behalf of the s&d group first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, nadia hirsch, for her report and for our work together. it is indeed a message that seeks to guarantee the rights of people living in the european union and to protect them from discrimination, and above all to enable them to work, to support themselves and their families and not to be a burden on anyone. because the report is primarily concerned with how we can ensure the smoothest and most effective integration of people who have come to the european union, who live here, and, above all, their participation in the labour market. as a representative of the socialist group, it is important to me that the report draws attention to the problem of migrant unemployment and the measures we are calling on the member states to take to combat it. one of the key measures to combat the prevalence of temporary, precarious work among migrants should be the application of universally binding collective wage agreements. i am glad that this is included in the report and that we can vote on it tomorrow. after all, successful integration into the labour market is one of the most important conditions for the effective integration of immigrants into our communities. it is also essential to address the poor educational attainment of migrant children and the fact that migrant children often drop out of the education system prematurely. the responsibility lies primarily with the member states, who we call upon to ensure that training programmes and education staff are prepared to work with migrant children. and finally, i want to draw attention to the need to give migrant family members the right to work. i would urge all colleagues to support this important idea, because only then will we be able to empower migrants and their accompanying family members to fulfil themselves and contribute effectively to our economic growth, without placing an unnecessary additional burden on our social protection systems.
although some agreements have been reached on the multiannual financial framework, they are not good enough for the citizens of my country. the payments for agriculture are not uniform across the member states, leaving room for a 'two-speed' europe, or rather a 'more equal' europe. well-planned eu funding can indeed achieve real objectives by overcoming the crisis and unemployment. but so far, at least, i don't see any real prospects for that. mr barros moura, would you agree with me that the biggest problem which can make even the best intentions go to waste is that we get bogged down in a sea of new resolutions, directives and regulations, forgetting to see how the previous decisions are being implemented? and just one example: if unemployment is rising in europe, what are all our previous strategies worth? (der redner is damit einverstanden, eine frage nach dem verfahren der blauen karte gemäß artikel 149 absatz 8 geschäftsordnung zu beantworten) (it is therefore agreed that the question referred to in the second paragraph of article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure is to be answered by the president of the court of justice.)
answer to the question posed by the blue card. in fact, my proposal would be very simple and based on one principle. the principle would be that of fairness that the same payments to farmers apply to both the old and the new member states of the european union. one principle is the principle of justice.
in writing. − i voted for this report because, in the context of the 'arab spring' and in a post-revolutionary period, women in tunisia, egypt, morocco and libya, regardless of their situation, are actively participating in the movements as demonstrators, organisers and leaders, alongside their male peers. in these four countries, the process is not yet complete; progress is being made and obstacles are being encountered, so the final outcome is not yet clear. today, women continue to fight for representation in newly formed parliaments and governments, and for equal rights in their countries' new constitutions. their main task is to ensure that women are actively involved in the institutions responsible for drafting the new constitution and that democracy, women's rights and gender equality are clearly defined in their constitution. the eu has an important role to play in implementing its renewed neighbourhood policy. by supporting the establishment of democratic regimes and economic and social development, the eu could help its southern neighbours achieve the goals of the popular uprisings: greater democracy, freedom and justice. gender equality and women's rights should be among the eu's priorities. to this end, women and women's organisations should be involved in the negotiation process with public authorities when deciding on the priorities and programmes of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument.
in writing. − many women, especially young women, in north africa were active in the arab spring movements. they participated in demonstrations, political debates and elections, and actively contributed to the growth and strengthening of civil society. women in north africa are therefore important actors in democratic change in their countries. the european union, therefore, in the context of its development cooperation and neighbourhood policy commitments under the treaties, must fully support the various programmes for the empowerment of women in north africa, programmes for the exchange of experience, and continue to cooperate with other international institutions. the eu's high representative for human rights also has a major role to play in monitoring violations of women's rights and violence against women.
in writing. - i support this resolution. equality must become part of the democratization process. it is essential that progress on women's rights is made at all levels of government, based on the eu experience. the active transition to democracy in these countries must eliminate discrimination against women. women must be given the opportunity to participate fully in society on the same terms as men. they must be given access to the education system, medical care, the law, public media and political participation. the social inclusion of women must be increased. the democratic process must support women's rights and gender equality, and the principle of equality must be applied effectively and systematically.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the financing of cooperation with african, caribbean and pacific (acp) states and overseas countries and territories. the acp-eu partnership will be financed by the 11th european development fund for the period 2014-2020. the main objective of eu development cooperation is to reduce poverty and eventually eradicate it. i support the proposals that at least 20% of the 11th edf resources should be allocated to basic social services such as health care and basic education and to the protection of women in order to achieve these objectives. i support calls for the use of the 11th edf and other cooperation instruments to maintain at least the current level of eu development assistance, thus achieving the overall target of member states to contribute 0.7% of their gdp to development assistance. it is important to put in place effective and appropriate tax collection measures to prevent international tax avoidance and the use of tax havens. it is necessary to enhance the impact and raise awareness of eu support and to allocate at least 5% of the 11th edf resources to administrative expenditure of the commission. eu companies awarding public contracts financed by the edf-acp should apply environmental and social standards.
in writing. − i believe that it is necessary to ensure that the eu budget is responsive to the problems that need to be addressed urgently in a crisis, with particular attention to the internal problems of the union. poverty reduction is a key objective of eu development cooperation, which should be pursued in a proportionate manner, taking into account the circumstances. however, the allocation of funding should not affect other priority union policies. in particular, the special situation of the acp countries and regions needs to be carefully examined. development cooperation policies should be aligned with other eu policies affecting developing countries. it is necessary to ensure transparency and accountability in the allocation of financial assistance to combat poverty in the acp countries and to implement mentoring programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a resolution on the conclusions of the european council (epc) of 7 and 8 february 2013 on the multiannual financial framework. the resolution seeks to reject the ecsc agreement, which does not meet the priorities envisaged by the ep and which provides for a smaller multiannual community budget than in previous periods. at the same time, it calls for the full opening of negotiations with the council on the revision of all the provisions of the cfp regulation. i agree that the budget should be sufficiently flexible, that it should be reviewed at a later stage and that it should be drawn up from own resources. it is necessary to pay all payment requests for 2012 by the end of the negotiations and to commit to paying all legal obligations by the end of 2013. the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 shall be geared towards promoting economic growth and job creation. the new financial transactions and value added taxes should cover a higher proportion of budgetary expenditure than at present, thus reducing member states' contributions.
in writing. − i voted on the joint motion for a resolution tabled by five political groups on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 7 and 8 february on the multiannual financial framework. the european parliament is opposed to the european council agreement as it stands, as it does not reflect the priorities envisaged by parliament for increasing employment and economic growth in the european union. the new eu financial agreement should ensure the successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and ensure the financing of the necessary measures to help europe overcome the crisis and become stronger. in its resolution, the european parliament proposes to significantly increase investment in youth, innovation, research and technological development, infrastructure and to achieve the eu's climate change and energy objectives, raise education levels and promote social inclusion. the european parliament is ready to negotiate with the european council on the new financial framework, during which it is expected to agree on budgetary flexibility, transparency, mandatory revision. the eu budget should be financed from own resources as defined in the treaty of lisbon and at least part of the revenues from the financial transaction tax should be allocated to the eu budget as own resources. finally, the eu budget deficit, which already stands at €16 billion, should be avoided.
in writing. − i abstained because, firstly, the approval of the proposed long-term eu budget, known as the multiannual financial framework (mff), requires agreements on the 2012 deficit, revenue reform and the revision of the multiannual budget. the aim must also be to ensure that the eu's long-term budget is flexible enough to allow for the best possible use of resources, and a review of the long-term budget is necessary in due course.
in writing. − the eu's multiannual financial perspective is an important document for our common future. unfortunately, the crisis in europe means that no agreement has been reached so far. although agreement was reached between the member states, it is regrettable that it did not take account of the european parliament's positions. although the agreement reached in the governing council is also beneficial for lithuania the country whose voters i represent, i believe that the heads of state or government should have taken account of the position of the ep, which has been expressed on several occasions. i therefore support the document adopted today and its provisions that the final decision should be taken in consultation with all the eu institutions.
in writing. − the council conclusions on the mff are merely a political agreement between the states and do not reflect the priorities envisaged. first, the mff should be the basis for overcoming the crisis. it should ensure the successful implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. however, the financial programme submitted does not reflect these objectives. on the contrary, it may even lead to an eu budget deficit. in this context, it is essential to take an innovative approach and to look at the development of european transport, energy and digital networks from a completely different perspective, and the importance of research and technological innovation in accelerating the transition to a sustainable, world-leading, knowledge-based economy, using natural resources efficiently and responsibly. on the other hand, the vote on the mff must be open and transparent.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a revision of the european system of national and regional accounts (ess). this regulation aims to establish the rules to be followed for the collection and publication of key macroeconomic data in the european union. reliable and comparable statistical data are essential for policy and economic actors to monitor the real economic situation and its development. i agree with the proposals to automate data collection methods as much as possible, to ensure that the data provided are as complete and transparent as possible. i support calls for the commission to reformulate the data transmission programme, which is currently difficult to understand and does not specify the content, frequency and deadlines of the information to be provided.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because statistics are an important part of the public debate: independent, reliable, comparable and timely data are essential for policy-makers, economic operators and citizens to identify, assess and monitor the real economic situation and its development. the regulation aims to establish the rules to be followed for the collection and publication of key macroeconomic data in the eu. member states have expressed concerns about the administrative burden and it is therefore proposed to use automated real-time data collection methods where possible. the data provided should be as detailed as possible in order to ensure maximum transparency, especially in the public sector, and the collection and publication of data should be consumer-oriented. further methodological work is needed to provide a more complete picture in the areas of environment, household activities and the public sector. the revised european system of accounts would provide eu citizens with macroeconomic statistics of the highest quality, based on an appropriate methodology and presented in accordance with a well-defined timetable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because it lays down the rules to be followed for the collection and publication of key macroeconomic data in the eu. the proposal aims to revise the european system of national and regional accounts in a fundamental way. the revised european system of accounts should provide citizens of the european union with macroeconomic statistics of the highest quality, based on an appropriate methodology and presented in accordance with a well-defined timetable.
in writing. - i agree with the proposed amendments to the regulation. this is a significant step towards improving the quality of european statistics, in particular national accounts. the eu must have a single system of common standards, definitions, classifications and accounting rules, which is at the heart of macroeconomic statistics. this will provide up-to-date and reliable information on the economic structure and development of each country or region. given the importance of this system, it is necessary to ensure close cooperation and appropriate coordination between stakeholders and to reduce the burden of accountability and ensure coherence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the provisions of eu legislation on flag state control should much better reflect the specific and clear requirements to avoid divergent interpretations by member states that could lead to unfair competition and social dumping. the objective is to create a level playing field in the global maritime sector by establishing common minimum standards for all ships flying the flag of any state and for seafarers. this will create a strong framework of guidelines for member states to fulfil their obligations as flag states and establish effective and thorough inspection procedures to ensure compliance of their vessels' marking with the requirements of directive 2009/13/ec. the european union will introduce a stronger enforcement regime by defining eu infringement procedures to help ensure even better compliance, and maritime shipping will also strengthen complaint, verification and enforcement procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the aspects of flag state control defined in the 2006 convention on maritime labour (hereinafter 'the convention') should be more fully and specifically enshrined in eu law. the main advantage of incorporating the provisions of the convention into eu law is that it will provide a stronger enforcement regime in the european union, for example by defining eu infringement procedures that will help to ensure even better compliance. the provisions of eu legislation on flag state control should reflect much better the specific and clear requirements of the convention, which aim to avoid divergent interpretations by member states that could lead to unfair competition and social dumping. the directive will significantly enhance maritime transport aspects by ensuring the implementation of the labour law rights of seafarers as agreed in the maritime labour convention. it will strengthen and enhance the image of the sector and safeguard eu interests at global level by creating a common level playing field.
in writing. − i support these amendments, which aim not only to strengthen the state's responsibility but also to strengthen and improve the image of the sector. the eu must have common monitoring requirements, but they must not create barriers to maritime trade. in addition, the standards for working in maritime shipping would apply to all ships. it should be noted that an effective system for the inspection and approval of working conditions in maritime transport should be established. this will ensure that working and living conditions are in line with the requirements of the maritime labour convention. moreover, unfair competition and social dumping will be prevented.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the 2014 mff will be transitioned from one mff period to another and therefore the 2014 financial programming needs a detailed and realistic estimate of the level of appropriations. planning shall take into account the fact that implementation is slower in the year of the start of the multiannual financial framework than in the year of its end and that, as a result, the level of payment needs is generally lower at the beginning of the multiannual financial framework period than at the end. at the end of 2012, the payment execution rate was 99% and the amount of outstanding commitments had increased by eur 10 billion over the past year and now reached an unprecedented level of eur 217,3 billion. the level of late payments by the end of 2013 could be even higher and this issue needs to be addressed immediately. the eu urgently needs to strengthen growth and competitiveness in order to create jobs and opportunities, especially for young people. greater integration of the economic, fiscal, financial and banking sectors, as well as better governance, must be pursued to stimulate growth with a view to restoring public finances.
in writing. - i said yes to this proposal. the eu budget is special. it represents only 1% of the european union's gdp. as much as 94% of the funds for the policies and programmes it provides go back to the member states and the citizens of the european union, so it should not be seen as an additional burden but as a means of promoting investment, growth and job creation in europe. any reduction in the eu budget would therefore inevitably increase imbalances and limit growth and the competitiveness of the union economy as a whole, as well as reduce cohesion, thus undermining the principle of solidarity, which is a fundamental value of the eu. the eu budget is an effective instrument for investment and solidarity, providing added value at both european and national level. i am therefore convinced that the capacity of this budget to boost growth, competitiveness and job creation is even more important in times of economic difficulty.
in writing. − the 2014 budget should be flexible, ensuring the efficient use of available resources. priority should be given to job creation, sustainable growth and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and adequate and realistic levels of payment should be set. it is very difficult to define general guidelines for the establishment of the 2014 budget in the absence of a clear ceiling for commitments in 2014. however, we must ensure that the new budget does away with inefficient use of eu funds and subsidies and effectively prevents structural debt from spreading at eu level. i think that support should be increased for member states experiencing economic recession. in this context, particular attention should be paid to investment in infrastructure, social measures, research, innovation and development. in addition, such countries should be given greater support to absorb the structural and cohesion funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which proposes to reduce the number of meps elected in the 12 eu countries in 2014 to one. the number of meps will increase from 754 to 766 following croatia's accession to the european union, but the treaty of lisbon requires that only 751 members be elected in 2014, so 15 seats will have to be vacated. three seats should be lost to germany, as the lisbon treaty does not allow a single country's delegation to have more than 96 seats (germany has 99 today). european union law provides for citizens to be represented in the european parliament in descending proportional order, i.e. the distribution of seats in the ep is designed to reflect as closely as possible the population of the member states. i agree that, following croatia's accession, and in order to comply with the provisions of the eu treaty, it is necessary to reduce the total number of seats in the european parliament to 15.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, with the beginning of the new parliamentary term in 2014, the current derogation from article 14 (2) of the treaty on european union will expire and the european parliament will have to be composed of no more than 751 members (750 plus the president). the current number of meps is 754, with 12 from croatia joining on 1 july. in order to bring the total number of members in line with the treaty in the new term of office, the number of seats will therefore have to be reduced to fifteen. given that the number of members of the european parliament must be reduced, it is proposed that the number of seats lost by member states be kept to a minimum, while taking the principle of decreasing proportionality as far as possible, in accordance with the principle 'no one gains more and no one loses more than one seat'. in accordance with this principle, the number of representatives of medium-sized and small countries such as lithuania will be reduced less than under the so-called 'fixed proportionality' method. this decision is based on political logic.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because, when the next parliamentary term begins in 2014, the european parliament (ep) will have to be composed of 751 members (750 members plus the president). following the entry into force of the treaty of accession of croatia, croatia will be allocated 12 seats in the parliament, bringing the total number of seats temporarily to 766. in order to bring the number of seats in line with the treaty provisions (751), the total number of seats will therefore have to be reduced by 15 seats. 3 of the 15 places will be compulsorily withdrawn from the german quota, which will be reduced from 99 to 96 places - the limit set by the treaty. the remaining 12 places will have to be reduced by one or more places (total of 12) by reducing the quota of the 24 member states (including croatia) which exceed the minimum of 6 places laid down in the treaty (currently malta, luxembourg, cyprus and estonia each have 6 places). the decision establishing the composition of the new parliament may also require more detailed arrangements for the redistribution of seats in order to take account of any changes in the population of the member states and/or to improve the interpretation and implementation of the principle of proportionality by decreasing the number of seats laid down in the treaty.
in writing. − the european parliament is the only directly elected eu institution. however, the situation that had developed over the past few years, with the number of meps increasing with the accession of new members, was unacceptable. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which fixed the number of meps at a fixed level, has therefore made it clear that the number of representatives from some member states must be reduced in line with demographic changes. it is regrettable that lithuania has been among such countries. however, in view of the decline in the population of my country in recent years, i support the rapporteur's proposal for a variant which reflects the principle of declining proportional representation in a sufficiently objective way.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the principle of diminishing proportionality must be clearly and objectively defined in the new procedure for determining the composition of the european parliament. it is essential that, on the basis of this principle, the allocation of seats between member states be made objectively. no member state would lose more than one seat, with the exception of germany. i support the proposal that the new system be defined at the same time as the review of the voting system in the council. this system must be clear, comprehensive, transparent and capable of adapting to new conditions in the future in the light of the changing demographics of the member states. we must do everything possible to ensure that the result is based on a clear political logic. citizens are represented in the ep in descending proportional order.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because measures in the spirit drinks sector should protect the good reputation of spirit drinks producers in the european union and on the world market, while continuing to take into account the traditional methods used in the production of spirit drinks. furthermore, measures in the spirit drinks sector should contribute to a high level of consumer protection. the definitions of spirit drinks may be supplemented and updated where the previous definitions were flawed or insufficient or could be improved as a result of technological developments, but should continue to take into account traditional quality technologies. following the entry into force of the commission regulation, producers of non-compliant absinthe will have to either stop using the term absinthe as a trade name or change old recipes, regardless of traditional production methods, as a result of the new definition.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because, once the commission regulation enters into force, producers of non-compliant absinthe will have to either stop using the term absinthe as a trade name or change old recipes, regardless of traditional production methods, as a result of this new definition. a substantial change in the characteristics of a product may cause a serious disturbance in the consumer's mind and reduce consumer confidence. absinthe as a product category could be defined in such a way as to ensure respect for regional diversity rather than requiring producers to change their traditional production methods. the proposal was therefore opposed to the adoption of a draft commission implementing regulation amending annexes ii and iii to regulation (ec) no 110/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on the definition, description, presentation, labelling and the protection of geographical indications of spirit drinks.
in writing. − measures in the spirit drinks sector should ensure a high level of consumer protection, market transparency and fair competition. in this context, it is necessary to clearly define the criteria for the production, description, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks, as well as for the protection of geographical indications. it is essential that the new regulation does not create an additional administrative burden for producers. in order to ensure respect for regional diversity, producers should not be obliged to change traditional production methods or trade names.
so we often hear a lot of talk about solidarity in this house, and unfortunately the principle of solidarity is not always reflected in the concrete decisions. we have also spoken a lot about the principle of solidarity in the agricultural context, and i am very pleased that our colleagues have understood the frustration of the baltic farmers and the baltic countries' concern about a certain discrimination in the matter of direct payments. so i am pleased that my colleagues and i have tabled amendment no 139 which has been accepted by this house, and i am very grateful to all those colleagues and colleagues. and this change in the negotiating area is likely to bring baltic farmers closer to the european union average payments much faster, starting in 2014. thank you all for your cooperation and understanding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a reform of the common agricultural policy, which aims to ensure a stable supply of high-quality food to consumers in the european union and adequate protection of the environment. one of the most important reform priorities for lithuania is the fairer distribution of eu direct payments. as early as 2007-2013, some lithuanian farmers were forced to abandon agricultural activities due to the incorrect agricultural policy. this is also affecting the country's rapidly growing emigration flows. it is necessary to start the standardisation of benefits as early as 2014 and to ensure that no member state receives benefits below 75% of the eu average in 2019. as regards other aspects of the reform, i support the proposals made for direct payments to active farmers only, not to landowners, for a ceiling of 300 000 direct payments and for new compulsory environmental measures for which each eu country should allocate 30% of direct payments. i agree that these measures should be flexible, i.e. dependent on the size of the farm and the environmental protection measures already taken by the farmer. i also believe that risk management measures should be financed from the rural development programme budget rather than from the direct payments budget. it is important to allow farmers' organisations to negotiate ppas on behalf of their members, as this would allow them to strengthen their bargaining power.
in writing. − i voted for direct payments to agriculture and i am pleased that the amendment on direct payments to farmers in the baltic states, put to the vote in plenary by the representatives of the baltic states - lithuania, latvia and estonia - with the other members of the european parliament, was adopted. it is a major achievement that the majority of meps supported this amendment and that the situation of baltic farmers, including lithuania, will improve as regards direct payments. at present, the gap in direct payments to farmers in the baltic states is still large compared to other eu member states. our farmers compete with farmers in other eu countries on the same production, labour and agricultural raw materials markets, but the direct payments received by baltic farmers are well below the eu average, with little difference in production costs. under this adopted proposal, direct payments to farmers in the baltic states will start to increase and approach the eu average in a shorter period than was proposed in the original report of the european parliament's committee on agriculture. thus, if our farmers are given a level playing field and fair support, the agricultural sector in the baltic states would become viable and could participate and compete on equal terms in the common agricultural market.
in writing. − i abstained because i am not satisfied with the proposal presented, and because i want to draw attention to the large differences in direct payments to farmers in the baltic states compared to other eu member states. if the baltic farmers were to be given a level playing field, and this should be ensured by fair and equitable support, the agricultural sector in the baltic countries would become viable. i believe that by the end of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, direct support should be distributed fairly across the union in order to achieve full harmonisation of direct support to farmers' incomes in all member states.
in writing. − i was the shadow rapporteur for the ppe group in the environment committee when it delivered its opinion on this document. but this time i do not want to speak as a representative of the group. the so-called 'agricultural greening' measures, while necessary for integrating environmental policy into other policies, should not, in my view, impose an additional administrative burden on farmers. on the other hand, in implementing the additional measures, we should also take into account that this burden is not proportionate to the direct payments received by farmers in different eu member states, e.g. the payments for lithuanian farmers are much lower than the direct payments for farmers in other eu member states. the eu's common agricultural policy is therefore still a long way from being truly unified.
in writing. − direct support must be fairly and equally distributed across the eu. we must have objective criteria to ensure transparency of the level of support and fair competition. i support the proposal that the national financial envelopes for direct payments should be adjusted so that the level of payments achieved in all member states is not below 55% of the union average in 2014 and not below 75% in 2019. it should be noted that the redistribution of direct payments proposed in the decision is not adequate for today's reality. the establishment of direct payment ceilings remains highly questionable and will only create an additional administrative burden.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a reform of the common agricultural policy, which aims to ensure a stable supply of high-quality food to consumers in the european union and adequate protection of the environment. one of the most important reform priorities for lithuania is the fairer distribution of eu direct payments. as early as 2007-2013, some lithuanian farmers were forced to abandon agricultural activities due to the incorrect agricultural policy. this is also affecting the country's rapidly growing emigration flows. it is necessary to start the standardisation of benefits as early as 2014 and to ensure that no member state receives benefits below 75% of the eu average in 2019. as regards other aspects of the reform, i support the proposals made for direct payments to active farmers only, not to landowners, for a ceiling of 300 000 direct payments and for new compulsory environmental measures for which each eu country should allocate 30% of direct payments. i agree that these measures should be flexible, i.e. dependent on the size of the farm and the environmental protection measures already taken by the farmer. i also believe that risk management measures should be financed from the rural development programme budget rather than from the direct payments budget. it is important to allow farmers' organisations to negotiate ppas on behalf of their members, as this would allow them to strengthen their bargaining power.
in writing. − a bold policy change is needed to meet current and future challenges. european agriculture must remain competitive. in order to increase competitiveness and market orientation, the new reform must follow the course of the previous reforms. in addition to addressing food security by ensuring a viable food production, green growth and sustainable territorial development are also needed. particular attention should be paid to the further deterioration of the situation in the milk sector, as milk producers are in a very difficult situation. in order to stabilise the situation and ensure market stability and to remain competitive on the global market, production should be adapted to european demand. the transitional period for the application of the quota system should be extended until 2020. i also believe that the sugar quota should also be extended and only be phased out.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a reform of the common agricultural policy, which aims to ensure a stable supply of high-quality food to consumers in the european union and adequate protection of the environment. one of the most important reform priorities for lithuania is the fairer distribution of eu direct payments. as early as 2007-2013, some lithuanian farmers were forced to abandon agricultural activities due to the incorrect agricultural policy. this is also affecting the country's rapidly growing emigration flows. it is necessary to start the standardisation of benefits as early as 2014 and to ensure that no member state receives benefits below 75% of the eu average in 2019. as regards other aspects of the reform, i support the proposals made for direct payments to active farmers only, not to landowners, for a ceiling of 300 000 direct payments and for new compulsory environmental measures for which each eu country should allocate 30% of direct payments. i agree that these measures should be flexible, i.e. dependent on the size of the farm and the environmental protection measures already taken by the farmer. i also believe that risk management measures should be financed from the rural development programme budget rather than from the direct payments budget. it is important to allow farmers' organisations to negotiate ppas on behalf of their members, as this would allow them to strengthen their bargaining power.
in writing. − eu support for rural development is an important source of funding for agricultural policy. however, the adoption of this document should take account of the fact that the member states and their agricultural sectors are sufficiently different and have reached different levels of development. i am therefore convinced that the final versions of the eu's agricultural financing documents should incorporate the flexibility of these financing instruments, allowing member states to move funds between the different pillars of financing with a little more freedom.
in writing. − it is essential that rural development programmes are implemented promptly and effectively. to ensure that villages do not become mere working fields and our future is not empty, clear funding priorities, areas, and a fair distribution of the budget between the individual supported activities must be established. rural development policy must not interfere with the fulfilment of the requirements of other policies. the allocation of funding should avoid excessive red tape. in addition, the main stakeholder groups should be involved in the formulation of rural and agricultural development policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a reform of the common agricultural policy, which aims to ensure a stable supply of high-quality food to consumers in the european union and adequate protection of the environment. one of the most important reform priorities for lithuania is the fairer distribution of eu direct payments. as early as 2007-2013, some lithuanian farmers were forced to abandon agricultural activities due to the incorrect agricultural policy. this is also affecting the country's rapidly growing emigration flows. it is necessary to start the standardisation of benefits as early as 2014 and to ensure that no member state receives benefits below 75% of the eu average in 2019. as regards other aspects of the reform, i support the proposals made for direct payments to active farmers only, not to landowners, for a ceiling of 300 000 direct payments and for new compulsory environmental measures for which each eu country should allocate 30% of direct payments. i agree that these measures should be flexible, i.e. dependent on the size of the farm and the environmental protection measures already taken by the farmer. i also believe that risk management measures should be financed from the rural development programme budget rather than from the direct payments budget. it is important to allow farmers' organisations to negotiate ppas on behalf of their members, as this would allow them to strengthen their bargaining power.
in writing. − i support this report because it is urgently necessary to establish links between the financing, management and monitoring mechanisms of the cap. agriculture is a separate policy and requires different principles. this policy gives a big boost to agriculture, to the quality of life. european farmers must have the means to ensure that the population can provide for itself to the extent necessary, and thus obtain sufficient food of acceptable quality and goods at acceptable prices. reducing bureaucracy must be one of the main objectives. the administrative burden for member states and beneficiaries must be kept to a minimum. in order to ensure fairness and to avoid double penalty, a system of fair, proportionate and adequate penalties for infringements by farmers should be established.
in writing. − the importance of the eu’s energy policy lies in growth and economic competitiveness, creating jobs in the eu. i voted in favour of this report as the energy roadmap 2050 shows that each member state has to focus on such critical areas as emissions reduction, energy independence and energy security, renewable energy, energy efficiency, investments in advanced technologies, etc. furthermore, the current market environment is highly unpredictable, thus new strategies and innovative instruments should be promoted to encourage investment in infrastructure, enabling a quick adjustment to the rapidly changing environment. it is very important to adopt the strategy of regional energy specialisation, allowing regions to develop those energy sources which provide the most efficient means, but at the same time there is a need to pursue closer integration with neighbouring countries and regions, and to strengthen cooperation with partners.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for an energy action plan to 2050. the proposal aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 80% by 2050, by reducing the use of the most polluting fuels, such as coal and oil, while improving the eu's competitiveness and security of supply. the objective of the plan is increased energy efficiency and a higher share of renewable energy sources. i agree with the suggestions that the reduction of energy consumption in buildings should be considered a key aspect of the eu's long-term energy policy. it is necessary to adopt ambitious strategies for the renovation of buildings and to explore scenarios for 'energy-intensive use of renewable resources'. i agree that it is important to exploit low greenhouse gas electricity generation (including renewables, carbon capture and storage and nuclear) in the future energy mix. it is also important to establish robust systems for investing in renewable energy sources, to ensure that agreements are not concluded in contravention of internal energy market legislation and to enable the commission to analyse agreements in order to verify their compatibility with that legislation.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because it is the european parliament's way of putting forward its proposals in the debate on the eu's energy action plan to 2050. as member states have an interest in reducing dependence on energy imports at volatile prices and in diversifying energy supplies, the main energy policy objective in the field of energy security is to reduce uncertainties that lead to interstate tensions and market failures that prevent suppliers and consumers from taking advantage of trade. energy security in the eu is based on the fundamental pillar of own energy resources and access to them. in this respect, it would therefore be most prudent for states to develop energy technologies in which they have the skills and experience to guarantee a stable and continuous energy supply, while respecting environmental and climate protection standards. for member states, in pursuit of energy security and energy independence, the focus should be on an energy interdependence model, with the rapid completion of the eu internal energy market and the infrastructure for a north-south and east-west smart grid covering all electricity grids. it is necessary to achieve a fully integrated european energy market by 2014, to fully implement internal energy market legislation in all member states and to ensure that no member state or region remains isolated from the european gas and electricity networks after 2015.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the eu's energy policy must be aligned not only with climate change and environmental protection but also with other priority areas of union policy, including security, foreign and neighbourhood affairs, trade and development policy, and the defence of human rights and democratic principles. the implementation of the eu's energy policy should aim at greater independence, including through energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable energy sources and the shift towards low-emission sources, thereby enhancing the union's competitiveness.
in writing. − energy policy has only been a matter of eu competence for a few years. nevertheless, it is important to define long-term and clear guidelines for the implementation of this policy and concrete action plans already today. i would like to highlight two priority areas of action which are also discussed in this document. on the one hand, the successful functioning of the eu energy market requires that the european union is no longer an energy island, that the rules of competition in the single energy supply market are enforced and that the development of new energy sources (e.g. shale gas) is guaranteed. on the other hand, energy is closely linked to environmental policy. efficient use of energy resources and energy saving are an essential element of eu energy policy to achieve both energy independence, cost reduction and environmental policy objectives. i therefore believe that energy policy action in these two areas should be a priority in both the short and long term.
in writing. − energy policy must be conducted on the basis of the principles of sustainable development, ensuring equal, universal and competitive access to energy resources. closer integration with neighbouring countries is necessary to achieve full independence from fossil fuels. the eu's priority projects must be clearly formulated, with the principle of the possibility of concentrating large-scale private investment. more attention should be paid to the achievement of the targets for energy efficiency, renewable energy and greenhouse gas emissions. it should be noted that the impact of its implementation on individual countries is not addressed in this plan. in addition, a strategy for closer cooperation between states and the creation of a european energy community should be developed to achieve the objectives set out in this plan. states must develop technologies that guarantee a stable and continuous supply of energy. i believe that by 2050, by using up all the low-carbon electricity generation, we should have a nearly zero-carbon electricity sector and low electricity prices. in this context, nuclear energy has a special role to play in reducing system costs and electricity prices.
in writing. − today energy policy is facing many challenges and needs to be adapted to a changing reality. the energy roadmap 2050 goes beyond the goals established in the energy 2020 communication and provides priorities for long-term energy orientations. targets set in this roadmap suggest a greater scope of governance than the eu actually possesses now, and establish the commitment to move to a low-carbon economy in 2050 and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from 80 % to 95 % by 2050. the roadmap also proposes measures to increase energy efficiency and places a strong emphasis on renewable sources of energy. i welcome this report and consider that a coordinated energy policy and political commitment are needed in order to reconcile the application of the climate objectives with the necessity for energy security in the eu. this report takes into account the changes that the energy market is undergoing now and focuses on the future of an energy market by asking the question concerning renewable energy and shale gas. this question is particularly relevant for lithuania as the position of different stakeholders on shale gas and renewable energy is not homogenous and can be determined only in the future.
in writing. − there is a need to re-evaluate the safety of existing reactors in europe and to protect them against accidents which have been assessed as highly improbable. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on risk and safety assessments (‘stress tests’) of nuclear power plants in the european union and related activities because of the usefulness of this procedure and its character as an unprecedented exercise at world level. at the same time, i hope that the results of the stress tests will contribute to enhancing a nuclear safety culture in europe, thus setting a leading example internationally (especially after the fukushima accident). the results of this quite detailed analysis of the preparedness and safety of nuclear power plants against natural disasters or other external events in the eu and, to some extent, also in some neighbouring countries allows an ambitious and stable regulatory framework to be created for the safe continuation of nuclear activity in europe. i firmly believe that the results of the stress tests are very important for the safety of citizens worldwide.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the risk and safety assessment of nuclear power plants in the european union (testing under harsh conditions). the proposal aims to encourage member states to implement without delay the nuclear safety recommendations issued following the eu inspections of the resilience of nuclear power plants to natural disasters. following the fukushima accident in 2011, this inspection was carried out at all 145 nuclear reactors. it assessed the safety of nuclear power plants in the event of extreme natural events, such as earthquakes and floods. almost all eu nuclear power plants are identified as in need of upgrades, at a cost of €25 billion. i agree with the calls for member states to make all necessary improvements without delay, but i do not think that the current principle that nuclear safety should be the sole responsibility of the member state where the nuclear power plant is located or is being closed is correct. in the event of a disaster, the consequences would extend beyond the member state, and the states themselves do not have sufficient experience and resources to manage these processes. i would therefore urge the commission to review the principles of nuclear safety and liability and to establish a mechanism for supervision and liability at eu level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because, in the light of the experience gained following the accident at the fukushima daiichi nuclear power plant in japan, the safety of nuclear power plants is becoming a matter of particular concern in the european union and worldwide. in the european union, 47 nuclear power plants with 111 reactors are home to more than 100 000 people within a 30 km radius. on the basis of the results of the stress tests, the national regulatory authorities concluded that there were no technical reasons for the closure of any nuclear power plant in the eu. however, stress testing has shown that almost all nuclear power plants have to implement certain safety improvements specific to each of them. the aim should be to publish guidelines for the assessment of natural hazards and limit cases by the western european association of nuclear regulators, to emphasise the importance of periodic safety checks, to implement recognised measures to increase insulation and to minimise the number of accidents caused by natural hazards and their potential consequences. to achieve this, it is necessary to implement the identified and necessary safety enhancement measures without delay, while stressing that measures relating to nuclear safety and security should not be affected by the collective savings measures adopted by member states in times of economic difficulty.
in writing. - i agreed to this. the results of the european union's nuclear power plants stress testing should contribute to the development of a nuclear safety culture in europe, so that it can serve as an example at international level. it is recognised that following the stress test, countries have started to implement or plan measures that will improve the safety of their power plants, in particular in the light of the experience gained after the fukushima events. the fact that the european nuclear safety regulators group and the commission have agreed on an action plan to implement the recommendations and that all actions to raise the nuclear safety thresholds following stress testing will be taken jointly at european level is also welcomed. on the basis of the peer review, the commission identified measures to be considered at eu level, thus encouraging all actors involved to take appropriate and immediate follow-up action, taking into account all the conclusions and recommendations made, including the best practices identified.
in writing. − i voted in favour of a resolution which contains many important comments and suggestions on eu leadership in shaping the highest international standards of nuclear safety and ensuring safety in eu member states. the european parliament's position that nuclear energy remains an important source of energy for reducing co2 emissions obliges the eu to pay particular attention to nuclear safety. i believe that stress testing should also include terrorist incidents and plane crashes. it is also necessary to ensure that this testing is carried out by third countries, including russia and belarus, which are building nuclear power plants close to the eu border. the astaravo nuclear power plant in belarus is located just 30 miles [50 km] from one of the eu capitals. an accident in the baltic sea in the kaliningrad area would immediately affect at least two eu member states. the current situation, with no consultation of affected parties, is very worrying. the reluctance of these countries to cooperate and share information with affected eu countries is already felt during the pre-construction phase, and the likelihood of coordinated cross-border cooperation in the event of a disaster seems particularly low. i think the eu should make its expectations clear to the third parties involved.
in writing. - i support this resolution. i believe that the highest and strictest principles of nuclear safety regulation must be applied not only in the eu but also globally to nuclear power plants, whether they are in operation or closed or closed. particular attention should be paid to those countries that have not applied transparent nuclear safety testing under stressed conditions, despite the fact that their power plants are located at the borders of eu member states. i think that prevention measures outside the facility are a very important issue. in view of this, the scope of stress testing should be extended to include off-site assessment of emergency preparedness. on the other hand, we must understand that testing the risks and safety of nuclear power plants under stress conditions cannot replace the comprehensive safety inspection of nuclear power plants.
in writing. − given the indisputable fact that there are still a large amount of racist organisations operating in the world today, and that most countries have their own racist parties operating under nationalistic and political guises, i voted in favour of this draft resolution on strengthening the fight against racism, xenophobia and hate crime. i believe that better protection of and data collection on vulnerable groups in society are necessary, as well as a stronger commitment by political leaders to actively uphold european values and foster a climate of mutual respect for and inclusion of persons of different religious or ethnic background, or sexual orientation. it is crucial for each member state to take up concrete action plans to fight racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu is founded on values such as respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of minorities. racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism, religious intolerance, anti-gypsyism, homophobia, transphobia and related forms of intolerance include beliefs, prejudices and attitudes that justify discrimination, biased violence and hatred on certain grounds, including characteristics and social status. it is important that the eu and its member states take action to combat and prevent racism and xenophobia by ensuring education, fostering a culture of respect and tolerance and ensuring that victims report hate crimes, are investigated by law enforcement authorities and are subject to legal sanctions. hate crimes must be clearly identified and punished in the european union, ensuring that such crimes are properly recorded and effectively investigated, that they are prosecuted and that victims are offered appropriate support, protection and compensation.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. although all member states have prohibited discrimination in their legal systems in order to promote equality for all, discrimination and hate crime are widespread in the eu. it is therefore important that the eu and its member states take action to combat and prevent racism and xenophobia by ensuring education, fostering a culture of respect and tolerance and ensuring that victims report hate crimes, are investigated by law enforcement authorities and are punished in accordance with the legal framework. calls for a strengthened role for national authorities responsible for combating discrimination in order to increase accountability for the promotion of hate speech and incitement to hate crime; it also calls for support for training programmes for law enforcement and judicial staff and relevant eu agencies to eliminate and prevent discriminatory practices and hate crimes. the aim is to increase the collection of reliable data on hate crime, i.e. to record at least the number of convictions of hate crimes reported by the public and recorded by the authorities.
in writing. − the endocrine is one of the most important systems in the body. the endocrine system regulates much of what happens in the body, including reproduction, metabolism, growth, salt and water balance and cardiac function. taking into account the fact that during the past 20 years, hormone-related disorders and illnesses like cancer, obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases have increased and that endocrine disrupters are classified as risk factors for health, i voted in favour of this report because the protection of human health is an important eu policy. moreover, it is very important to make clear what is regarded as a substance with endocrine-disrupting properties, and criteria determining what constitutes an endocrine disrupter must be scientifically based. it is important to provide support for up-to-date research. i truly believe that protection of human health must be effective – to restrict the use of endocrine disruptors in products, such as cosmetics, toys, furniture, building products, food, etc. the fact that we do not know everything cannot be used as a pretext for inactivity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the protection of public health against hormones (ham). such substances are found in cosmetics, furniture, electronics, construction and textiles, and food. their effects are harmful to human reproduction, metabolism and the heart. the aim of the proposal is to clarify and reduce the available scientific knowledge on the human exposure to these substances. i support the proposals to restrict the use of these substances in products for specific target groups: children, young people, pregnant women. it is important to apply stricter safety requirements for the installation of pre-schools and schools and to reduce the number of permits for endocrine disrupting substances. it is necessary to include ham in the list of substances of very high concern in the reach regulation and to establish the testing requirements under existing eu legislation to determine ham.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because over the last 20 years there has been an increase in the incidence of disorders and diseases of the human endocrine system, including premature puberty, an increase in the incidence of deformed genitalia, an increase in the incidence of certain cancers and metabolic diseases. a growing body of research shows that endocrine disrupting chemicals and their combinations have an impact on both chronic diseases, including hormone-related cancers, obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and reproductive problems. proposals for definitions and testing of endocrine disrupting chemicals, as well as information requirements for chemicals placed on the market, and for eu legislation clarifying what is considered to be endocrine disrupting chemicals, need to be submitted as soon as possible. on the basis of the available scientific data, there is no sufficient basis for establishing no-effect limit values, therefore endocrine disruptors should be considered as non-limit values and any exposure to such substances could be hazardous. the eu should give priority to funding research into the health effects of endocrine disruptors and to support long-term studies, allowing for evidence-based evaluation of the long-term and multi-generational effects of endocrine disruptors.
in writing. - i voted for this document. in our daily lives, we are constantly exposed to endocrine-disrupting substances. they are found in food packaging, skin care products, cosmetics, building materials, electronics, furniture and floor coverings. many of the plastic products we find in our homes and workplaces contain one or more chemicals that are suspected of having endocrine disrupting effects. substances with endocrine disrupting properties are numerous and widespread, which means that individual consumers cannot protect themselves against them. appropriate measures should therefore be taken to reduce the exposure of humans to endocrine disrupting substances, together with increased efforts in studies to refine the available scientific knowledge on the effects of endocrine disrupting substances.
in writing. - i support this resolution. given that it is not possible for individual consumers to protect themselves against these substances, it is necessary to lay down more stringent safety requirements. the use of endocrine disrupting substances in products intended for specific target groups should be restricted at eu level. it is very important that endocrine disrupting substances are classified as substances without limit values, as they can severely impair the human immune system. in addition, specific measures relating to specific scientific criteria for the identification of endocrine disrupting properties shall be developed.
in writing. − over the past twenty years the rate of hormone-related disorders and illnesses has constantly risen. the increase in such disorders is explained by external factors such as lifestyle, and economic factors, nutrition, pathogens, drugs and other social causes such as stress. there is another factor which has been proven by a wide range of studies that can contribute to hormone-related disorders: exposure to endocrine-disrupting chemicals. the impact of chemical exposure is not immediately visible but can lead to an increased risk of hormonal disturbances, reduced fertility and reproductive abnormalities and can be particularly dangerous for pregnant women, children and young people. this parliament report calls for a reduction in exposure to these chemicals and provides an input for assessing relevant eu legislation, putting emphasis on the precautionary principle in the ongoing review of the eu’s strategy on endocrine disruptors. i welcome this report and consider that further appropriate measures need to be taken in order to identify endocrine disruptors, harmonise new testing methods and establish criteria for regulation. only concrete legislative measures can lead to the protection of citizens from substances with endocrine-disrupting properties and in turn could help to decrease hormone-related disorders linked to them.
in writing. − the european union is at a turning point in employment policy. trends reveal that there is a decline in the working-age population in europe and a clear human resources crisis. in the next 10 years, the number of people of working-age is expected to decline by 14 million. qualified immigration can make a key contribution to resolving this dual dilemma. i fully support this report because diverse, open and tolerant societies are more likely to attract skilled workers who possess the human and creative capital required for knowledge economies. employment is the key to successful integration. moreover, integration is a continuous two-way process requiring the involvement of both parties: non-eu nationals and the host society. therefore, it is necessary to combat discrimination against third-country nationals and eu citizens coming from other eu member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the integration of migrants and its impact on the eu labour market. despite an unemployment rate of around 10% (23.8 million people) in the eu, there is already a shortage of skilled labour. it is necessary to implement a high-quality integration policy for migrants in the eu, to provide equal access to the eu labour market for migrants and to provide for the rapid and inexpensive recognition of diplomas and qualifications. i support the proposals for the creation of a working group on interdisciplinary integration to address labour migration and labour market integration, with the participation of the directorates-general responsible for these areas and the european external action service. it is also necessary to establish a common eu coordination framework to help identify labour market needs and thus better manage labour migration. it is important to establish departure preparation offices in the countries of origin and host countries and to strengthen cooperation with third countries in the field of recurrent migration.
in writing. - i abstained in the vote on this proposal. integration is a continuous two-way process that requires the participation of non-eu nationals and the host society. while there are already many examples of good practice in the integration of migrants, asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection across the eu, mostly demonstrated by local authorities, there are still many problems to be solved and many questions to be answered.
in writing. - i voted no. the unemployment rate in the european union is around 10%, i.e. 23.8 million people, eu citizens, are currently out of work. unemployment rates, especially among young people, are particularly high in countries experiencing economic difficulties. this poses not only difficulties for economic growth but also social challenges. i therefore believe that the priority should not be so much to attract immigrants from third countries as to make every effort to reduce unemployment and to employ as many eu citizens as possible. we already know that in a few years, there will be a shortage of a certain type of specialist. the training of a skilled workforce that meets labour market needs could be achieved primarily by promoting close cooperation between business and training institutions.
in writing. − it is worth noting that the rapidly rising unemployment rate has already pushed many europeans to the brink of poverty. strict austerity policies prevent most countries from providing adequate basic health care and social security services to their citizens. the question therefore arises as to how they will provide such guarantees to third-country nationals. i believe that the problem of the demographic deficit in the union should be tackled, in particular, by strengthening the european social and financial environment. given the enormous unemployment in europe, it is unclear how and by what means immigrants could be integrated into the labour market. the focus should now be on rebuilding the eu's devastated labour market. only when the situation has stabilised can the integration of migrants be successful.
in writing. − today the european union is facing several challenges: demographic change, decline of the working-age population and a shortage of skilled workers. qualified migration can make a key contribution to facing these challenges successfully and can have a positive impact on the socio-economic development of the european union. in order to be successful, an integrated and differentiated approach to immigration is needed which aims to provide measures for the full integration of migrants in the receiving countries of the eu. this report provides a set of recommendations for the successful integration of migrants and calls for all possible steps to be taken to create a uniform, transparent system at eu level, including eu approaches to social security coordination for third-country nationals. i welcome this comprehensive report and consider that obstacles resulting from the institutional framework of receiving countries need to be removed. migrants represent a vulnerable high-risk group that faces discrimination and exclusion and is often affected by skills mismatch, low-wage jobs and unemployment. a well-managed and coherent migration policy can ensure migrants’ rights, protect them from discrimination and use their employment potential in order to ensure their full contribution to the economic development of the eu.
in writing. − i fully support this report because it is necessary to develop, implement and support a model for asbestos screening and registration to avoid asbestos-related diseases and other damage. this could be implemented by tightening the screening and registration of asbestos procedures and stepping up official inspections to ensure the effective and unhindered implementation of eu asbestos legislation, ensuring that civil engineers, architects and employees of registered asbestos removal companies are qualified and trained. moreover, the removal of asbestos-containing materials from buildings, especially in less economically developed member states and rural areas, places a financial burden on building owners, and this should therefore continue to receive active support at national and eu level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the possibilities of eliminating the health risks associated with asbestos. the world health organisation estimates that between 20 000 and 30 000 cases of substance-related diseases are reported annually in the eu alone, and that more than 300 000 deaths are expected in the eu by 2030. i support calls for the eu to develop and implement a model for asbestos control and registration. it is necessary to require owners of public and commercial buildings to check for the presence of asbestos-containing materials in their buildings, to draw up plans for the management of the risks posed by these materials and to ensure that this information is made available to staff. models for monitoring asbestos in the air and drinking water at workplaces, in residential areas and in landfills are also needed. it is important to establish the necessary requirements for the mandatory qualifications required to work with this substance, to develop action plans for its disposal and management and to include a harmonised strategy on asbestos in the future eu health and safety strategy 2014-2020. it is also important to oblige insurance institutions to adopt a common approach to the recognition of asbestos-related occupational diseases.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, according to the world health organisation (who), between 20 000 and 30 000 cases of asbestos-related diseases are reported annually in the eu alone and it is estimated that more than 300 000 people will die of mesothelioma in the eu by 2030. all types of asbestos are dangerous and their harmful effects are documented and regulated. asbestos causes diseases such as lung cancer and pleural mesothelioma, which develop when asbestos fibers are exposed to water or inhaled. the effects are recognised as hazardous to human health and may take several decades, sometimes more than 40 years, to become apparent. despite the ban on asbestos, it is still present in many ships, trains, bunkers, tunnels, galleries, public and private water supply systems and particularly in buildings, including many public and private buildings. furthermore, the current market surveillance measures are not able to ensure that asbestos is not imported into the european union market. the future european union strategy on health and safety for 2014-2020 should include a coherent strategy on asbestos and provide for effective measures to improve the collection and dissemination of technical, scientific and economic information and to help shape and implement national policies aimed at ensuring the safety and health of workers.
in writing. - i voted for this document. all types of asbestos are dangerous and their harmful effects are documented and regulated. the most harmful effects of inhaled asbestos fibres on health occur even decades after inhalation. it therefore calls for the development of eu models for the monitoring of asbestos in existing private and public buildings, including residential and non-residential buildings, land, infrastructure, logistics and pipelines. member states should establish public asbestos registers providing relevant information on the risks posed by asbestos to workers and employers planning renovation works, and complementing existing health and safety measures required under eu law.
in writing. - i support this resolution. asbestos is dangerous to humans and no safe level of asbestos has yet been established. the danger of asbestos to humans will only disappear when asbestos-containing substances are removed and replaced by harmless alternatives. i believe that asbestos removal programmes and prevention measures should be implemented at eu level. in particular, the mandatory checks for asbestos should apply. in addition, national long-term building renovation strategies should be aligned with asbestos removal strategies. more attention should be paid to initiatives aiming at replacing asbestos with solar panels.
in writing. − i believe that the confirmation of the statute for a european mutual society would create a voluntary scheme in the form of an optional instrument allowing mutual societies to act in different member states. the values of mutual societies correspond to the fundamental principles of the european social model. the purpose is to meet the needs of their members rather than achieve a return on investment. we should seriously take into account the fact that mutuals are particularly active in the area of health, long-term care, pensions and social services, including ageing population, and that the involvement of mutuals as major stakeholders is crucial to the long-lasting future of social protection, considering that population ageing currently poses major challenges in europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because credit unions are voluntary groups of natural or legal persons whose purpose is to meet the needs of their members. they shall operate on the principles of voluntary and open membership and solidarity of members and shall be governed in accordance with democratic principles, thereby contributing to responsible and sustainable governance. in this context, it is necessary to coordinate strategies and measures to ensure a level playing field for credit unions, including a european statute giving them equal opportunities to organise and operate at european level and appropriate legal instruments to facilitate their cross-border and international activities. the statute should set out precise and clear conditions for the creation of a genuine and effective new category of european credit insurance companies and it is therefore essential to take into account the previous model of european body statutes, which, by giving member states a great deal of flexibility and without ensuring added value, failed to create the conditions for the successful use of this european instrument.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. some self-help associations have a very strong voluntary component and this culture of volunteering needs to be preserved and promoted. in some member states, in addition to insurance services, mutual societies provide loans to their members at low or no interest rates. the social economy, in particular cooperatives, plays a key role in the union economy by combining profitability and solidarity, creating high-quality jobs and jobs at local level, strengthening social, economic and regional cohesion, creating social capital and promoting active citizenship, solidarity-based social welfare and an economy based on democratic values, which puts people first and supports sustainable development and social, environmental and technological innovation.
in writing. − i agree with the recommendation made. the eu will open up the single market to insurance companies and remove barriers to cross-border cooperation. it should be noted that these associations are important players in the social market economy of the european union. they actively contribute to the reform of social support systems and to the solution of socio-economic problems. it should be noted that, in accordance with the established governance and administrative rules, the cooperatives will be managed democratically and collectively financed for the benefit of their members. they will be able to provide a wide range of services to their members.
in writing. − the egyptian people are now in the crucial period of transformation towards democracy in the country. i fully agree that the egyptian authorities must ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly, press and media freedom, women’s rights, freedom of religion, conscience and thought, the protection of minorities and the fight against discrimination based on sexual orientation, etc. events such as the continued violent incidents, the impartial and non-transparent investigations into the killings, torture, degrading treatment and harassment of peaceful protesters, the rise of violence against women. the police and security forces reforms are absolutely necessary and cannot be delayed.
in writing. − i believe that it is necessary to continue to actively develop eu-egypt cooperation during the country's transition to democracy. particular attention should be paid to the continuing deterioration of the economic situation. in order to improve the eu-egypt dialogue, i believe that support should be given in the light of the progress made. this principle should become the basis of the european neighbourhood policy, which will help to implement reforms in the country. it should be noted that support should be linked to progress made in the areas of human rights and freedoms, democratic governance and the rule of law and social justice. in order to ensure a free and democratic society in egypt, the death penalty should be abolished and a moratorium on all executions imposed.
in writing. − i fully support the condemnation of nuclear threats, missile activities and human rights violations. the democratic people’s republic of korea poses a serious threat to regional and international peace and security. it increasingly isolates and impoverishes people through its pursuit of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery. the human rights situation and the humanitarian situation in the dprk remain deeply alarming. it is shocking that the government does not allow any political opposition, free and fair elections, free media, religious freedom, freedom of association, collective bargaining or freedom of movement, the death penalty still exists, etc. despite hopes for a change under the new leadership, north korea remains determined to continue its long running programme to develop a ballistic nuclear weapons capability.
in writing. - i voted yes. the dprk has officially stated that the leadership of the country reserves the right to use nuclear weapons for preventive purposes. the leadership is well aware that nuclear weapons would lose their preventive power the moment they are used and would cause irreparable damage to people, societies, the environment, property, international security and stability. such statements, recent actions and systematic violations of fundamental rights and freedoms only illustrate the inadequacy and absurdity of a military state marching towards totalitarianism, putting itself and its people first and foremost at risk.
in writing. - i support this resolution. it is essential that north korea complies with the moratorium on missile tests and irrevocably abandons its nuclear programmes. these measures would be a strong step towards the realization of the idea of a korean peninsula without nuclear weapons. it is worth noting that human rights violations are often equated with crimes against humanity. the full protection of human rights requires an end to the serious, frequent and systematic violations of human rights against the people of one's own country. in addition, a moratorium on the execution of the death penalty should be introduced.
in writing. − the eu-china strategic partnership is important for finding answers to global concerns (regional security, energy security, the promotion of democracy and human rights, etc.). moreover, the eu and china are world players in trading and import. the trade and investment relationship is a major source of wealth, jobs, development and innovation for both sides. i voted in favour of the report. the development of relations on economic, trade, cultural and social aspects between the eu and china could be one of the major factors in the development and betterment of both societies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the eu-china strategic partnership is of great importance for eu-china relations. these relations are important in responding to global challenges such as global and regional security, economic crisis, regulation of global finance and markets, energy security, non-proliferation and nuclear weapons, climate change, social and economic development of market economies, promotion of democracy and human rights, fight against organised crime, terrorism and piracy, and the establishment of a framework for bilateral eu-china issues. while china's economic policy successes can be celebrated, criticism from independent chinese scholars and observers is that the continuation of this trend is seriously threatened by corruption scandals, ambiguity and the 'red aristocracy', i.e. the wealthy and politically and economically connected close family members of former and current party leaders. only effective political reforms aimed at building inclusive, democratic and accountable institutions that reflect china's ethnic, religious, political and social diversity will help to create sustainable growth, stability and contain the semi-independent, despotic provincial, district and local party leaders whose abuse of power, especially in the context of highly pernicious and characteristic corruption, damages the reputation of china's national leadership both internally and externally.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. the eu-china strategic partnership is of key importance for eu-china relations and is relevant to responding to global challenges such as global and regional security, economic crisis, regulation of global financial and market conditions, energy security, non-proliferation and nuclear weapons, climate change, social and economic development of market economies, promotion of democracy and human rights, fight against organised crime, terrorism and piracy, and the development of a framework for bilateral eu-china issues. the eu is called upon to implement a long-term strategy on china, ensuring coordination between the actions of the union institutions and those of the union and its member states. the chinese authorities are expected to strengthen the eu-china strategic partnership at all political levels through the consistent and transparent application of mutual and international agreements and rules.
in writing. − china is becoming one of the world's largest economies with increasing international political weight as a result of partial economic liberalisation. unfortunately, political freedoms have not increased in china, and entrenched issues remain unresolved, such as the tibetan culture and people continue to face pressure. cases such as blocking decisions in the un security council without providing alternatives, and giving the syrian regime a free hand to continue to deal with its own citizens, show that china is an international actor that likes to use the fruits of influence, but it still lacks accountability. the rapidly growing chinese economy should shift its focus to low-carbon technologies and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, otherwise it will remain a climate change problem. eu-china cooperation is needed by both sides, but it is worth noting that the shared values are an integral part of the strategic partnership.
in writing. − i voted in favour of these resolutions because the europol joint investigation team, codenamed 'operation veto', has identified a widespread problem of agreements on the outcome of football matches in recent years. in addition, match-fixing is practised in many member states, which is of great concern as match-fixing is linked to organised crime and poses a serious threat to sports organisations in almost all member states. in this context, sports organisations must establish a code of conduct for all staff and all officials (players, coaches, referees, medical and technical staff and club and association managers) which identifies the risks associated with match-fixing arrangements, includes a clear prohibition on manipulation of matches for betting or other purposes, sets out the associated sanctions and includes a prohibition on betting on their own matches and an obligation to report any attempt to conclude match-fixing arrangements or knowledge of their application to the relevant whistleblower protection mechanism. specialized law enforcement units should be established to combat match-fixing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because match fixing is a crime that generates a lot of revenue but is very rarely prosecuted and punished. the use of end-of-match agreements by criminal organisations in their illegal activities, such as money laundering and trafficking in human beings and drugs. it is therefore strongly encouraged that all member states explicitly include match-fixing agreements in their national criminal law, provide for appropriate common minimum sanctions and ensure that any existing deficiencies are addressed in full respect of fundamental rights. in addition, it is intended that sports organisations establish a code of conduct for all staff and all officials (players, coaches, referees, medical and technical staff and club and association managers) which identifies the risks associated with match-fixing arrangements, includes a clear prohibition on manipulation of matches for betting or other purposes, sets out the associated sanctions and includes a prohibition on betting on one's own matches and an obligation to report any attempt to make match-fixing arrangements or knowledge of their application to an appropriate whistleblower protection mechanism.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the eu must develop and implement a common strategy and set up regulatory authorities to prevent out-of-competition agreements. it should be noted that these agreements are quite dangerous. the commission has also received comments from interested parties on the alleged aid to the united kingdom. it is essential to strictly adhere to a policy of total intolerance of corruption and to safeguard the principles of respect, unpredictability, equity, tolerance and integrity. sports organisations shall comply with the provisions of the code of conduct and apply good governance practices. the national criminal law of the member states should include agreements on the end of a competition and the prohibition on minors taking part in betting on competitions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls on all stakeholders in the cotton sector to work together, without further delay, through the international cotton advisory committee to minimise environmental degradation (water footprints and the use of pesticides, insecticides). they are to fight for human and labour rights and environmental pollution throughout the cotton value chain. moreover there is an undeniable need for the appropriate conditions to be created for small-scale producers from developing countries to gain access to the main value chains serving the union’s textile and clothing industry.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. cotton is one of the most important crops in land use and is an important source of employment and a vital agricultural non-food commodity for rural communities, traders, the textile industry and consumers worldwide. it is therefore essential to combat human and labour rights violations and environmental pollution throughout the cotton value chain, including the textile and clothing sectors. it is proposed to develop measures to facilitate the independent monitoring of human rights violations by non-governmental organisations throughout the cotton value chain. the sustainability of the cotton sector depends, among other things, on its producers, traders, raw material suppliers, textile producers, wholesalers, brands, governments, civil society and consumers, as fair trade systems allow for closer cooperation between consumers and producers.
in writing. - i support this resolution. first, trade must be transparent. the whole cotton value chain must be more sustainable, based on a long-term and coherent system. inhuman and appalling working conditions must be abolished. a legally binding corporate social responsibility framework is in place and human and labour rights violations are prevented. i think that the practice of sandblasting in textiles and clothing should be banned. it should be noted that this practice poses a serious risk to the health of workers, as it leads to fatal diseases.
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur on a good report, as this report and the council directive address existing gender issues at eu level in a variety of areas. in addition, the european parliament's report aims to assess the progress made in the implementation of this council directive in the member states and to identify existing problems. although this council directive, which implements equal treatment for women and men, was adopted almost a decade ago, there are still a number of problems relating to discrimination on grounds of sex in the use and supply of goods and services. member states should therefore pay greater attention to discrimination on grounds of sex and transpose the provisions of this directive into their national law as soon as possible, as legal gaps remain. in addition, the bodies responsible for monitoring the implementation of gender equality should be better coordinated and monitored to ensure the best possible implementation of this directive in the countries concerned and to ensure that the principle of equal treatment between men and women is not undermined. it should also be noted that some gender equality bodies are understaffed, often lack financial resources, and do not always exchange good practice, which does not ensure effective work in combating gender-based discrimination. i also call on the european commission to monitor closely any cases of discrimination, especially in relation to pregnant and breastfeeding women, single mothers, in order to obtain medical goods and services or to obtain a loan for an apartment or a business loan.
one in five young people in western europe is unemployed. the economic crisis seems to be over, and unemployment in western europe is up by a third from three years ago. in spain, 52% of young people are unemployed, in greece, 55% of young people are unemployed. young people also receive 45 percent of the wages of adults. there are riots in paris, athens, london, madrid. the young people who are not working have already made a name for themselves in the trade of being devoted to the good of others, humble, begging for mercy. that layer is already becoming a class and has all the attributes of a class. it is only a matter of time before the slogan 'all europe, trade, united' is used. at the turn of the 20th century, the authorities realized that workers needed to be well-fed, well-dressed, and have a place to live. the current rulers must understand that the future of the european union depends on how the problem of youth unemployment is tackled.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the european network and information security agency (enisa). i agree with the rapporteur that in adopting the new regulation on enisa, parliament has made an important contribution to tackling one of the most pressing dangers for the common market – the increasing number of cyber attacks. i believe that the enisa package is a success. it guarantees a solid european centre for expertise in the area of network and information security, which is fully integrated into the existing eu framework. it is important to involve enisa more intensively in the actions of the computer and emergency response teams (certs) which would provide a more profound connection to national data and privacy protection authorities. for a number of reasons, cyber attacks do not play the role they should in public discussion; however, they pose real threats to the wealth and freedom of european societies. a stronger and more effective enisa will provide the member states and the eu with a better tool to recognise and confront such threats.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to strengthen the european network and information security agency (enisa). the proposal aims to increase the reliability and security of the european information systems network. the modernisation of enisa will enhance the preparedness of the european union, the member states and private stakeholders to prevent and respond to cyber-attacks. the agency will develop exercises, economic analyses, risk assessments and awareness-raising campaigns on cybersecurity and will initiate public-private partnerships to increase the resilience of the eu information systems network. i support the proposals to extend the mandate of the agency for five years, to increase its financial resources and staff. i think that the commission should be given a stronger oversight function of the agency. the agency should also be able to develop cooperation with third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because electronic communications, infrastructure and services have become, directly and indirectly, a key factor in economic and social development. the european network and information security agency (enisa) was also established in march 2004 for a period of five years, with a subsequent extension of its mandate in 2008 until march 2012. in september 2010, the european commission made two proposals: one to extend the agency's mandate for a further 18 months until september 2013 and the other to modernise and restructure the agency in a major way. with the unanimous support of the european parliament, it was decided to approve, in the first instance, the extension of the mandate of the agency in order to ensure its immediate future and to allow the european parliament more time to hold a full debate and to analyse the question of the future of the agency. the second commission proposal on the renewal of the agency's role will focus on whether the agency is still needed. the agency should carry out its tasks in order to contribute to ensuring a high level of network and information security in the european union, to improving information provision and to developing and promoting a culture of network and information security in society for the benefit of citizens, consumers, businesses and public sector organisations in the european union, thereby contributing to the establishment and proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document because it is necessary to ensure a high level of network and information security in the european union, to improve information and to develop and promote a culture of network and information security in society for the benefit of citizens, consumers, businesses and public sector organisations in the european union, thus contributing to the establishment and proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. − i support the proposed regulation to strengthen and modernise the european network and information security agency. given the importance of network and information security, the agency will help to ensure and promote a high level of data security and protection. the enhanced mandate will ensure a smooth and efficient operating environment. in addition, an early warning system will be established to identify, analyse and coordinate data breaches. the modernisation of the agency will ensure a high level of network and information security in the european union and improve information provision. the agency will also contribute to the establishment and proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the whale population has declined dramatically and tens of thousands of whales die every year in eu waters. regulation (ec) no 812/2004, which has serious shortcomings, focuses on the use of acoustic equipment to prevent incidental capture of cetaceans, despite the fact that those animals face various threats such as habitat destruction, collision with ships and underwater noise pollution. in this context, it is necessary to establish a comprehensive legal framework for the protection of the cetaceans, similar to the us marine mammal protection act.
in writing. - i agreed to this. council regulation (ec) no 812/2004 of 24 april 2004 establishing measures relating to incidental catch of whale by vessels in international waters and amending regulation (ec) no 88/89 currently confers certain powers on the commission which need to be reclassified as measures of a delegated and implementing nature. the rapporteur considers it essential to find a legally sound solution to ensure the rights of parliament under the tfeu. in general, the rapporteur supports the commission proposal as far as it concerns the proposal to apply: delegated acts to harmonise the conditions and technical specifications for the use of sonic deterrents; implementing acts concerning the procedure and format for the fulfilment of the reporting obligations of the member states. however, the rapporteur proposes certain amendments to the commission proposal, i.e. to define more strictly the circumstances in which the commission may adopt delegated acts.
in writing. - i agree with this report. the whale population has declined dramatically, with thousands of whales dying each year. in order to prevent incidental capture of cetaceans, a comprehensive legal framework for the protection of cetaceans should be established. it is appropriate to confer on the commission more powers in this regard. it is essential that the commission does not abuse this right and only adopt delegated acts in certain well-defined circumstances. in addition, the commission should be accountable on a regular basis for the exercise of this power. the implementation of these measures will result in the appropriate harmonisation of the conditions and technical specifications required for the use of acoustic deterrents.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the new fisheries partnership agreement with a new protocol will help strengthen mauritius' capacity to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the agreement will also have a significant impact on the country's financial and political stability. in my view, the new fisheries partnership agreement and the new protocol will help the eu to preserve the ability to fish in the east african fishing areas and to maintain the viability of the european sector. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the mauritius agreement and the implementation of the mauritius fisheries agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the eu-mauritius fisheries partnership agreement. the eu and the republic of mauritius maintained fisheries relations until 2007, but the parties did not renew the agreement after it expired in 2003-2007. the proposal is a new partnership agreement that will help preserve the eu's ability to fish in the east african region's fishing zones and provide a stable legal environment for eu vessels and their dependent sectors. i support the eu's financial compensation of eur 660 000 per year to mauritius for an indicative annual catch of 5 500 tonnes and as additional eu support for mauritius' fisheries and maritime policy. the financial contribution will contribute to strengthening mauritius' capacity to combat illegal fishing. i support the proposals made to improve the control of the use of funds allocated to mauritius for eu support for fisheries and maritime policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the commission, on behalf of the european union, negotiated with the republic of mauritius the initial signature of a new fisheries partnership agreement and protocol between the european union and the republic of mauritius. on the basis of these negotiations, a new fisheries partnership agreement and a new protocol were initialled on 23 february 2012. it will help to strengthen mauritius' capacity to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, in particular by improving the monitoring and control infrastructure for fishing activities in the exclusive economic zone of mauritius. the agreement will also have a significant impact on the country's financial and political stability. the new fisheries partnership agreement and the new protocol will help the eu to preserve the ability to fish in the fishing areas of the east african region and to maintain the viability of the european sector by creating a stable legal environment for eu vessels and their dependent sectors.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the new fisheries partnership agreement and the new protocol take full account of the interests of both parties. the new fisheries partnership agreement with a new protocol will also help to strengthen mauritius' capacity to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, in particular by improving the infrastructure for monitoring and control of fishing activities in the mauritius exclusive economic zone. the agreement will also have a significant impact on the country's financial and political stability. however, it is necessary to ensure control of the use of the additional eu support for the mauritius fisheries and maritime policy. the new fisheries partnership agreement and the new protocol will help the eu to maintain the ability to fish in the agreed fishing areas of the east african region and to maintain the viability of the european sector by providing a stable legal environment and predictability for eu vessels and their dependent sectors in the medium term. the information provided in the country strategy paper indicates that mauritius is in a good state of human and fundamental rights and respect for democratic principles. building trust and developing long-term, mutually beneficial relations in this area is essential to preserve the eu's good reputation and credibility.
in writing. − i am in favour of the conclusion of this agreement and of a new protocol which will strengthen cooperation between the eu and the republic of mauritius. eu vessels will be able to fish freely in indian waters, thus improving the spatial distribution of fishing effort. another important aspect is that the partnership system will be based on a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible use of fisheries resources. it should be noted that the conclusion of this agreement will not have any negative impact on the economy, society or the environment. it will also encourage the same principles of good regulation in the fisheries sector and sound maritime management throughout the world.
in writing. − immunity is not a weapon which members of parliament can use to settle personal disputes. it is a means of supporting the democratic functioning of the political community. parliament and its individual members are often the targets of political intrigue, intrigue, and scrutiny. in this context, it is necessary to protect them from political interference or other influences. furthermore, parliament should not take over the functions of law enforcement authorities. members of parliament must enjoy protection which allows them to perform their duties properly. any decision must be taken only after having assessed its consequences in advance.
in writing. − decisions must not be based on personal sympathies or on political interests alone. the immunity of a member of parliament does not exempt him from liability for an infringement of the law. however, parliament cannot take over the functions of the administration of justice. the principles of separation of powers must be distinguished. any possible political pressure must be prevented. members of parliament must be afforded adequate protection to enable them to perform their duties successfully and to maintain the confidence of their electorate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because, in the light of the negative economic developments taking place in the world, it is important to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the fundamental structural changes in the world trade system brought about by globalisation. the global financial and economic crisis also affected italian household appliance companies. the deterioration of the conditions for granting financial credit and the decline in order volumes had a negative impact on the business processes of antonio merlodi spa, leading to the closure of the company and the dismissal of 1517 employees. we in the european parliament believe that measures to reintegrate workers into the labour market, such as vocational guidance, job-search assistance, entrepreneurship promotion and vocational training, increase the chances of recruiting redundant workers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a grant from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the purpose of the egf is to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in the world trade system. italy is to receive eur 5 037 482 to support the redundancies of 153 workers in the household appliance sector. today, the desire of manufacturers of household appliances to move their production to third countries is becoming more and more pronounced. financial assistance will be provided to finance a tailor-made package of services, including labour market integration measures, i.e. general education and vocational training for unskilled workers, vocational training for skilled workers, technical courses for technicians, special courses for managers and engineers. it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because the european union has established legislative and budgetary measures to provide additional support to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in the world trade system and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. italy submitted an application egf/2011/023 it/antonio merloni for a financial contribution from the egf, following redundancies in an italian company antonio merloni spa, and requested assistance for 1 517 workers. the application complies with the criteria for granting a financial contribution under the egf regulation and italy is therefore eligible for a financial contribution under this regulation. i would remind you that the egf has already supported workers made redundant in the household appliance sector (report egf/2009/010 lt/snaigė). in this case, the commission proposed to mobilise an amount of eur 5 037 482. i should note that union financial assistance for redundant workers should be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the priority today is to take all possible measures to help businesses emerge from the crisis quickly and effectively. in view of this, it is necessary to grant aid to an italian household appliance manufacturer which is facing very serious financial difficulties. it should be noted that the aid is intended to help redundant workers reintegrate into the labour market. financial assistance should be dynamic and delivered as quickly and efficiently as possible in order to ensure long-term employment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the economic changes taking place all over the world directly affect companies operating in different markets and have negative consequences. agile s.r.l., an italian company active in the information and communication technology (ict) sector, suffered during the economic crisis from a decline in sales volumes (-5,4%), a failure to implement its commercial strategy, heavy losses, insolvency and the forced lay-off of 1257 employees. in this context, i believe it is necessary to ensure that redundant workers (856) are able to integrate into the labour market through measures such as career counselling, assistance in finding employment in the same sector, support for business start-up, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a grant from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the egf shall support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in the world trade system. italy is to receive eur 3 689 474 to support the 1257 workers made redundant by itr service providers. there is a trend today for it service providers to move to third countries. financial assistance will be provided to finance a tailor-made package of services, including labour market integration measures, vocational training, technical courses for technicians, special courses for managers and engineers. it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because 1 257 workers were made redundant by the italian company agile s.r.l., which operates in the information and communication technologies (ict) sector. the economic and financial crisis had a more negative impact on the it sector than expected and the tightening of credit conditions had caused the company to face even greater difficulties, which led to its failure to find a suitable solution and to its bankruptcy in 2010. italy submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in the enterprise 'agile s.r.l.', on 30 december 2011 and supplemented it by additional information up to 2 october 2012. this application complies with the requirements for determining the amount of financial support as laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposed to mobilise an amount of eur 3 689 474.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the link between the redundancies and the global financial and economic crisis is undeniable. the financial and economic crisis and its impact on the sector could not be foreseen. the impact of redundancies is particularly significant and requires an operational intervention mechanism. given the financial difficulties experienced by this italian company in the ict sector, it should be granted effective and operational support. this support will help redundant workers to reintegrate into the labour market. it will also be a show of solidarity with the people who have lost their jobs. the support provided will contribute to the promotion of long-term active labour market policies and contribute to the prevention of unemployment and early intervention in the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a grant from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the purpose of the egf is to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in the world trade system. the commission has decided to grant eur 3 941 999 to austria to support 320 workers made redundant by firms in the tobacco sector. financial assistance will be provided to finance a tailor-made package of services, including labour market integration measures, i.e. general education and vocational training for unskilled workers, vocational training for skilled workers, technical courses for technicians, special courses for managers and engineers. it is also essential to adapt the training offered to the needs of the workforce and the business environment in the region.
in writing. − i gave my consent to the proposal as austria had submitted an application egf/2011/010 at/austria tabak for financial support from the egf, following the redundancies of 320 workers in austria tabak gmbh and 14 suppliers and downstream companies in austria (of which 270 workers were foreseen for support under egf co-financed measures). redundancies due to the closure of the last production site of austria tabak in the hainburg brück leita area, following a decision by the company's owner japan tobacco international, resulting in a total of 320 redundancies. the commission therefore proposed to mobilise an amount of eur 3 941 999.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund should be mobilised to provide financial support to an austrian cigarette factory. it is worth noting that the egf plays a very important role in the reintegration of workers made redundant into the labour market. the support provided will help to avoid long-term unemployment in difficult labour market conditions and to successfully reintegrate people into the labour market. attention should be drawn to the need to establish a strict control mechanism to ensure that support is granted only to individual employees and not used for restructuring of firms or sectors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for an economic partnership agreement between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries. the purpose of the proposal is to remove the country which has withdrawn from the list of regions or countries which have withdrawn from the negotiations. i agreed to the deal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because a number of states had completed negotiations on agreements and could therefore be included in annex i to council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 of 20 december 2007 applying the arrangements for trade in products originating in certain states which are part of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states provided for in agreements establishing or to be establishing economic partnership agreements. others have not taken the necessary steps to ratify their respective agreements. in accordance with article 2 (3) of regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, and in particular point (b) thereof, annex i to that regulation should therefore be amended by deleting those countries from that annex. in order to ensure that those countries can be readmitted as a matter of urgency to annex i to regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 after they have taken the necessary measures to ratify their respective agreements and before they enter into force, the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union should be delegated to the commission in respect of readmitting countries which have been deleted from annex i to regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 in accordance with this regulation. it is of particular importance that the commission carry out appropriate consultations during its preparatory work, including at expert level. in carrying out the preparatory work for and drafting delegated acts, the commission should ensure a simultaneous, timely and appropriate transmission of relevant documents to the european parliament and to the council.
in writing. - i agree with the position. the eu-acp economic partnership agreements are highly development-friendly. in particular, they help to remove existing barriers to trade and undoubtedly increase cooperation in all areas related to trade and development. in view of this, i consider it appropriate to empower the commission to adopt delegated acts in order to ensure that countries are removed from the list of countries and regions that have terminated negotiations in an expeditious manner. furthermore, the implementation of this mandate by the commission will allow for the re-inclusion of partners in annex i to that regulation as a matter of urgency. however, in order to improve economic and trade cooperation between the acp and the eu, it is essential that the commission, in carrying out the tasks assigned to it, not only reports to parliament on a more regular basis but also regularly consults at expert level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the eu emissions trading system is the most important tool for reducing industrial pollution in the eu in a cost-effective and efficient way. despite the fact that emissions have decreased since the introduction of the eu emissions trading system, there are currently significant inconsistencies in the system. the current economic crisis, combined with the large volume of external carbon credits linked to the clean development mechanism and the many regulatory provisions related to the transition to the third trading period (2013-2020), has resulted in a clear surplus of allowances. by the end of 2011, there was a surplus of 955 million allowances and this is expected to increase. as the surplus of allowances far exceeds demand, the price of carbon dioxide has fallen from eur 30 per tonne to eur 7 per tonne. this decline in the price of carbon is in contrast to the significant increase in sustainable scientific and technological innovation and is therefore a disincentive to invest in low-carbon technology and a growing risk of the european union becoming dependent on carbon-intensive infrastructure. the guidelines on certain state aid measures should therefore take account of these circumstances and criteria. in addition, the list of carbon leakage sectors should be revised to include energy-efficient sectors with relatively low carbon emissions.
in writing. - parliament has unfortunately demonstrated today that it is more influenced by the interests of the various interest groups than by the public interest. it has long been clear that the eu's emissions trading scheme cannot function as a stand-alone economic instrument operating in a free market. yes, the commission's proposal was not perfect and we need to start a wider debate on a fundamental reform of the atl system as soon as possible. the commission proposal, together with the parliament's proposals, would have created a kind of safe space for these discussions. unfortunately, without it, we are left with a largely ineffective eu climate change policy.
in writing. − in order to ensure the proper functioning of the market, the regulation adopted must be justified by an impact assessment which also improves the functioning of the market and ensures fair competition. the measures envisaged should be applied only in exceptional cases, in strict compliance with the rules laid down and without creating an additional burden for undertakings. in exceptional circumstances, the commission could change the auction schedule during the trading period. it is noted that the excess allowances not only reduce the price of carbon dioxide but also the investment in low-carbon technologies. i believe that a short-term structural measure should be applied to correct the market imbalance in the eu ets. timelines for the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances are an effective measure that does not adversely affect the stability of the trading system and does not distort markets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the greenhouse gas emission allowance system. given that greenhouse gas emissions from aviation have increased by around 100% since 1990 and continue to increase, this issue needs to be addressed. the aviation greenhouse gas emissions trading system is too moderate, requiring other industries to reduce emissions by 21%, while aviation is only required to reduce emissions by 5%. however, we, the members of the european parliament, support the agreement reached with the council on the temporary (up to one year) exemption from the emissions allowance system for international flights to and from eu airports. intercontinental flights to and from the european union, involving airlines from both eu and non-eu countries, will be exempted from the emissions allowance system for one year. the objective of this agreement is a global agreement on emission reductions. i agree with the rapporteur that this decision can be seen not as a measure aimed at the application of european environmental standards at global level but as a measure aimed at identifying the most appropriate approaches to a common problem.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on a greenhouse gas emission allowance system. the proposal aims to temporarily exempt international flights from the emissions trading scheme, allowing the international civil aviation organisation (icao) to conclude negotiations on international co2 regulation. i support the proposals made to seek to agree in international negotiations market-based measures to ensure that the aviation sector is subject to the same pressure to reduce pollution as other sectors. since 1990, aviation greenhouse gas emissions have increased by about 100 per cent. it should be made clear that, in the absence of a satisfactory agreement, all international flights will be covered by the eu ets. it is also important to carry out a thorough analysis of the effects on competition between european and third-country airlines.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document. the aviation sector is distinguished by its international character and a global approach to tackling the rapidly increasing pollution from international aviation would be the most appropriate, as it is the most effective way to reduce aviation emissions. under the united nations framework convention on climate change, all countries are required to develop and implement national and, where appropriate, regional programmes that include measures to mitigate the effects of climate change. the union is committed to reducing its co2 emissions, including those from the aviation sector. while a one-year exemption for flights from or outside the eea is not a perfect solution, it does provide a better prospect of reaching a satisfactory international agreement this year than the possibility of continuing to apply existing legislation. i therefore believe that it is essential to accept this proposal and to remove the legal uncertainty surrounding the airlines' obligations and to send a clear signal to our international negotiating partners. they should understand that europe wants to reach an international agreement, is open to negotiating the best market-based measures, but does not intend to wait indefinitely for the aviation pollution issue to be addressed in the same way as other sectors.
in writing. − the inclusion of the aviation sector in the eu emissions trading scheme is a natural step towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. this inclusion must be universal and cover the entire aviation sector. on the other hand, third parties are understandably concerned about the future negative impact on competition. while supporting today's decision to postpone the inclusion of third country airlines in the eu atl scheme, i call on both the eu and the rest of the world to adopt as soon as possible an international agreement to combat climate change in the aviation sector.
in writing. − greenhouse gas pollution from the aviation sector is a problem not only for the eu but also for the world. it is worth noting that the sector is experiencing rapid increases in greenhouse gas emissions, which require global cooperation. joint research projects and measures should be developed to mitigate the climate change impact of the aviation sector. i believe that more favourable market measures should be applied to emissions from international aviation. however, distortions of the market and competition must be avoided in all cases. it is also necessary to ensure that the regulation adopted does not have a negative impact on the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this important resolution and believe that today’s decision makes european banks more resilient, so that no more taxpayers’ money has to be used to prop them up. the new set of rules is the most comprehensive and far-reaching banking regulation in the history of the eu. an important part of the new rules is that for the first time, there will be a cap on bankers’ bonuses. bonuses may not be higher than salary. in exceptional cases only, bonuses may amount to a maximum of twice as much as the fixed salary. i believe that this rule will bring fairness and transparency into the banking sphere and contribute to a change in culture. parliament also supported new rules regarding tightened capital requirements for banks. from 1 january 2014 onwards, european banks have to put aside more and better capital to be prepared for possible crises. the new rule that banks have to publish, country by country, what their profit is, how much tax they pay, and how much they receive in subsidies is unprecedented. i strongly believe that this requirement will increase transparency and will help to avoid crises.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on prudential supervision of credit institutions. the proposal aims to impose stricter requirements on the 8 200 eu banks, which control 53% of global assets, in order to strengthen the resilience of the sector to crises. it is necessary to ensure that banks continue to finance economic activities in order to have more and better quality capital and to be able to cover losses incurred. i agree that bankers should not be allowed to receive a premium higher than their fixed annual salary, because they are the ones who, by following the huge bonuses, are risking big, but foreign money. the bank of greece has also provided a detailed description of the measures to be taken to address the specific problems of the banking sector in greece. such banks will have to increase their reserves by an additional 1 to 3%. i believe that these changes will allow the eu to be better prepared for possible crises and, if they occur, depositors and creditors will be able to withdraw their money immediately. i agree that from next year all eu banks should be accountable to the european commission be required to report on income, profit, loss, other operating results. it is essential that such data should already be made public from 2015.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the light of the economic and financial crisis, a rigorous assessment of the costs and benefits of internal liquidity in credit institutions is needed. it is also essential to encourage institutions to reduce the external costs arising from their financial difficulties or failure. it is appropriate to encourage credit institutions and relevant investment firms to hold, in addition to other own funds requirements, a capital protection buffer and a countercyclical capital buffer to ensure that credit institutions and investment firms accumulate sufficient capital base to cover losses in times of economic growth. it is also important to note that the smooth functioning of the internal banking market requires not only legal rules but also close and regular cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states and much closer convergence of regulatory and supervisory practices. in addition, recovery plans are an important tool to help resolve the problems of financial institutions effectively. in the event of a failure, they should help to reduce the negative impact on the real economy and avoid the need to use taxpayers' money. member states should encourage institutions and their groups to develop and implement resolution plans and to submit those plans for approval to resolution authorities with the full involvement and coordination of the european banking authority.
in writing. − i have supported this proposal because i believe that today there is a need for stricter capital requirements for banks and for limiting bankers' bonuses and for stronger supervision of banks. the adoption of rules aimed at tightening capital requirements for banks, facilitating lending to small businesses and limiting bankers' bonuses is necessary. we must seek to protect the interests of depositors and investors in institutions and ensure the stability of the financial system. i believe that prudential supervision of institutions and the protection of customers of credit institutions should be strengthened, and that auditors should be required to inform the competent authorities immediately whenever, in the course of their duties, they become aware of certain facts which may have a significant impact on the financial situation of an institution or on its administrative or accounting systems.
in writing. − i believe that the same rules should apply throughout the eu as regards the access to the activities of credit institutions and investment firms, as well as the same management methods and supervisory frameworks and risk mitigation rules. it should be noted that in order to halt the fragmentation of financial markets and ensure the effective functioning of the internal market, legal rules alone are not sufficient, and close and regular cooperation between the authorities of the member states is required in this respect. on the other hand, the regulation imposed should not create a disproportionate burden for credit institutions. the supervisory mechanism envisaged must ensure the stability of the financial system and protect the interests of depositors, investors and consumers. it is essential to encourage institutions to reduce external costs and to have a sound remuneration policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on risk mitigation requirements for credit institutions and investment firms. the proposal aims to impose stricter requirements on the 8 200 eu banks, which control 53% of global assets, in order to strengthen the sector's resilience to crises, ensure that banks continue to finance economic activities, have more and better quality capital and be able to cover losses. i agree that bankers should not be allowed to receive a premium higher than their fixed annual salary, because they are the ones who, by following the huge bonuses, are risking big, but foreign money. the bank of greece has also provided a detailed description of the measures to be taken to address the specific problems of the banking sector in greece. such banks will have to increase their reserves by an additional 1 to 3%. i believe that these changes will allow the eu to be better prepared for possible crises and, if they occur, depositors and creditors will be able to withdraw their money immediately. i agree that from next year all eu banks should be accountable to the european commission be required to report on income, profit, loss, other operating results. it is essential that such data should already be made public from 2015.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in order to eliminate the remaining barriers to trade and the significant distortions of competition caused by differences in national laws, and to prevent any possible obstacles to trade, it is necessary to adopt a regulation laying down uniform rules applicable in all member states. risk mitigation requirements applicable to credit institutions and investment firms should be set out, relating only to the functioning of banking and financial services markets and designed to ensure the financial stability of operators operating in those markets and a high level of investor and deposit protection. in addition, credit institutions and investment firms should be required to establish robust credit-granting criteria and procedures for credit-granting decisions. external credit ratings may be used as one of the criteria in this process, but should not be relied on exclusively or mechanically and should not be decisive. it is also important that a member state should be allowed to adopt more stringent national regulatory measures that it considers necessary to safeguard the financial stability of the country, provided that internal market principles and agreed minimum standards are respected.
in writing. − i supported this proposal because of the need to take consistent action to increase transparency, accountability and regulation by improving the quantitative and qualitative capital ratios of the banking system in order to ensure economic growth. it is necessary to introduce an additional non-risk-based measure to limit the growth of leverage in the banking system and to create a stronger system of liquidity buffers. the prudential requirements applicable to credit institutions and investment firms are, in my view, limited to the functioning of the banking and financial services markets and are designed to ensure the financial stability of operators operating in those markets and a high level of investor and deposit protection. all credit institutions and investment firms should follow the same rules in order to increase confidence in the stability of credit institutions and investment firms, in particular in the event of adverse circumstances.
in writing. −improving the transparency, accountability and regulation of the banking system and removing obstacles to the smooth functioning of the internal market. risk-management requirements will help to make banks stronger and more accountable in europe. we must not allow the mistakes of the past to be repeated. i believe that a common set of rules should be applied throughout the eu and a stronger system of liquidity reserves should be established. the banking sector should have more and better quality capital. this is a crucial step towards a new approach to risk. the risk mitigation requirements provided for must ensure not only the financial stability of the operators but also a high level of protection for investors and depositors.
in writing. − i am pleased that the european parliament has endorsed the proposed package of reforms for financial institutions. i voted for this report because i agree that banks have been playing risky games with people's deposits for too long. the financial sector has long operated in a kind of savage capitalism, with no poverty, taking all the profits but shifting the burden of losses to taxpayers in the event of a crisis. i agree that all credit institutions should maintain their capital reserves. banks cannot play billions of virtual euros when only a few hundredths of a percent of them are backed by real assets. i also strongly support the report's limitation of bankers' bonuses. from next year, the bonus cannot exceed the annual salary. and only in exceptional cases, after approval by the general meeting, can the premium be up to two salaries. i would suggest that the european union could follow the swiss example and limit bonuses not only to bankers but also to the managerial staff of other companies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the application of higher standards to groundhandling at airports. i fully agree with the rapporteur's proposal that the possibility of more than two companies providing ground services at the largest eu airports should be allowed. this is how competition is maintained. we also propose that ground handling companies operating at eu airports serving more than 5 million passengers per year set minimum service quality standards. this will improve the quality of the services provided. for example, there will be a maximum time for re-checking baggage, a maximum time between the first and last check-out, a minimum number of staff providing information at the boarding gate, and so on. the safety of airport workers also needs to be given greater attention.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because ground services are a highly competitive and capital-intensive business (with a turnover of around eur 50 billion in ground services worldwide) with high fixed costs for staff and equipment. there are eleven categories of ground services: 1) administrative and maintenance services at the airport; (2) the provision of passenger services; (3) the handling of baggage; (4) handling of freight and mail; (5) services provided at the aircraft parking area; (6) services to aircraft; 7) services related to fuels and lubricants; 8) maintenance of aircraft; 9) flight services and crew administration; 10) ground transport services; 11) food and drink. currently, market access is restricted for the services listed in categories 3, 4, 5 and 7. since the opening of the market for ground services, airlines have been able to achieve steady reductions in charges for these services, but this market must be opened in a sustainable manner. it is important to note that full liberalisation could lead to significant volatility as more and more service providers would be forced out of business. in the long term, full liberalisation would create an oligopoly of the few remaining companies providing groundhandling services. such an oligopoly would be contrary to the interests of airlines, employees and passengers and would have a negative impact on competitiveness, growth and job creation.
in writing. − i voted against because the eu's ground services market must be opened in a harmonised way, full liberalisation could lead to high volatility and more service providers would be forced out of business. the ground handling companies are the backbone of air transport and the resulting instability of the ground handling market would lead to a continuous disruption of european airports and a massive redundancy. however, in the long term, full liberalisation would create a pan-european oligopoly of the few remaining terrestrial operators. such an oligopoly would be contrary to the interests of airlines, employees and passengers and would have a negative impact on competitiveness, growth and job creation. if other service providers were allowed to be included, the increased burden of prices would be passed directly to the employees by reducing staff costs. the last relaxation of the provisions has shown the need to prevent such burden shifting. the wage decline in the ground handling sector cannot be allowed to continue and more permanent jobs must be replaced by temporary contracts. ground service personnel shall be responsible for flight safety, technical flight safety and counter-terrorism. the transfer of social burdens to workers and the forced labour in poor conditions are contrary to the right of the population to be protected. wage dumping will not improve quality. this threatens existing standards, smooth operation and employee motivation.
in writing. − it is natural that, with the rise in customer service standards in the private sector in the european union and in third countries, and in aviation that is partly being taken over by the public sector, provisions establishing minimum standards for passenger service have been necessary. i therefore support this document and hope that it will contribute to faster and more comfortable air travel.
in writing. − it is worth noting that efficient ground services increase airport capacity and improve airport use. moreover, the sector plays an important role in creating new jobs, especially at regional level. it is therefore necessary to protect the ground services sector from harmful liberalisation and to ensure that the operations carried out are safe and reliable. the measures envisaged must not only benefit eu consumers but also the eu economy as a whole. improve the quality and competitiveness of ground services and ensure their efficiency. i am in favour of collective agreements in this sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on technical and control measures in the skagerrak strait, norway. objective of the proposal a discard ban in the skagerrak. in order to win the support of european union citizens for the reform of the common fisheries policy, it is necessary to change the arrangements for the discarding of large quantities of food-producing fish. i agree with the proposals made for the establishment of technical and control measures, the list of species subject to the landing obligation and the timetable for their progressive implementation. i agree with the landing obligation and the other rules listed necessary for the control and verification of compliance with this obligation, which are necessary to enhance the protection of marine biological resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important at this time to improve the control and enforcement of fishing in the skagerrak strait and to identify ways of harmonising the eu and norwegian regulations on technical and control measures in the area four nautical miles from the baselines. since 1986, fishing in the skagerrak strait has been regulated by an international agreement, but norway has denounced the agreement. the termination took effect on 1 november 2012 and a new limited agreement was negotiated. the main objective of the proposal is to introduce a discard ban in the skagerrak. to achieve this objective, flag member states should develop and operate a remote electronic monitoring (rem) system for vessels fishing in the skagerrak and all vessels of 12 metres' length overall or more should be required to install a cte. such equipment should be used primarily on a voluntary basis. the obligation would only apply to vessels which have been found to have failed to comply with the new rules on several occasions. in such a case, national authorities should be able to require shipowners to install a cte system or to remain in port.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because it aims to introduce a ban on discarding fish in the skagerrak. the current regime based on the common fisheries policy, which in some cases releases relatively large quantities of all caught fish back into the sea, is perhaps the most difficult for the general public to understand and support. throwing the best fish overboard in this age of global food security is considered unthinkable.
in writing. - i agree with this report. the new regulation will help to harmonise the eu and norwegian regulations on technical and control measures and will improve the control of fishing in the skagerrak strait, taking into account the special regime applicable to this strait. i think it is appropriate to introduce a ban on discarding fish in this strait as far as possible. the first consideration in setting such a prohibition is whether the catch may be discarded. it is essential to ensure that the burden of control measures is proportionate to the controls that are necessary. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to amend this regulation by supplementing it with new technical specifications. a more flexible approach should therefore be applied to vessels that fish only sporadically in the skagerrak.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive on the consequences of the implementation of directive 2004/113/ec in the member states and on the identification of the main shortcomings and possible solutions to overcome them. the purpose of the directive is to implement the principle of equal treatment between men and women in access to goods and services in the european union. i support the proposals put forward to increase transparency in the commission's infringement procedures and actions, to create a public database of legislation and case law on gender-based discrimination, and to improve monitoring of the work of national gender equality bodies. it is necessary to provide financial support for training for lawyers working in the field of gender discrimination and to coordinate such training at eu level and to develop information campaigns for eu citizens on their rights. it is important to encourage member states to transpose the directive into national law within the time limits set and to focus their legislative work on ensuring legal certainty and clarity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to address the current gender issues at european union level, not only in employment but also in other areas. in addition, the implementation by member states of the council directive on the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services should be assessed. it is also essential to assess progress in this area and to identify legal gaps. i would therefore urge the european commission to monitor closely any cases of discrimination and breaches of the principle of equal treatment between women and men, particularly in relation to pregnant and breastfeeding mothers, single mothers who have difficulties in obtaining medical goods and services or who have difficulties in obtaining loans for an apartment or business credit. this council directive, which implements equal treatment for women and men, was adopted almost a decade ago, but there are still a number of problems relating to discrimination on grounds of sex in the access to and supply of goods and services. member states should pay greater attention to discrimination on grounds of sex and transpose the provisions of this directive into their national law as soon as possible in order to avoid legal loopholes.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because it is necessary to ensure that both women and men can take full responsibility for the directive and use it as an effective tool to protect their rights to equal access to all goods and services. both direct and indirect discrimination on grounds of sex in access to goods and services available to the public and in the supply of goods and services in the public and private sectors must be prohibited. it also prohibits discrimination against women on the grounds of pregnancy and motherhood, harassment and sexual harassment, and discrimination in the offering or supply of goods or services.
in writing. − the principle of equal treatment between women and men in access to and supply of goods and services must be guaranteed. i support the call to take this principle into account in particular in those states which have not yet transposed the directive implementing the equal treatment of women and men in the access to goods and services into national law. i believe that joint efforts to ensure equal treatment between men and women in the member states and the work of the bodies set up by the commission to work in this field can help to reduce discriminatory practices.
in writing. −discrimination and unjustified price increases must be prevented. goods and services must be available to consumers on equal terms. the principle of equal pricing for both sexes must be applied in both the private and public sectors. it should be noted that gender equality is one of the fundamental rights of the european union. in particular, it is necessary to establish a common approach in the insurance market to the rights of women and men in the use of life insurance services. the gender of the insured person should not be one of the main factors in assessing the level of risk of individuals. it is also essential to make infringement procedures more transparent and effective.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the commission and the eu member states should do more to combat all forms of discrimination. i regret that the commission has not yet presented a report on the implementation of council directive 2004/113/ec. the report should describe how eu member states have transposed the provisions of the directive into national law, what measures they are taking to eliminate still occurring cases of gender discrimination. it may be noted that there is already a fair amount of public discussion about discrimination in employment or measures to combat gender pay gaps. however, discrimination also occurs in other areas of life in the taking of loans or in the acquisition of other goods or services. i congratulate you on the closure of the test-achats case, which outlawed sex discrimination in the insurance industry. i would encourage the commission to monitor more closely the situation in the eu countries where discrimination still exists in the areas mentioned above and to propose measures to change it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on promoting development through trade. i agree with the rapporteurs that in order to have a significant impact on the development of poor countries, it is important to apply trade policy instruments properly. to achieve development objectives more effectively, eu trade policy must focus not only on national economies but also on the situation and level of development of local and regional authorities, and promote smarter and more profitable production accordingly. i believe that good governance and effective fight against corruption are crucial to the country's ability to develop trade and reap the benefits it provides. as we know, widespread corruption hinders the development of society at all levels. we, the members of the european parliament, therefore call on the european union to promote transparent governance in its trade policy. the eu cannot ignore corrupt systems and i believe that the eu should insist on transparency and the use of appropriate methods before it starts to cooperate. however, it should be noted that real change in a country, both in terms of social and economic development, must be carried out on the initiative and goodwill of the country itself.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on promoting development in developing countries through trade. the proposal aims to increase the trading capacity of developing countries. i agree that the european union's trade policy must be more geared to promoting the diversification of the economies of developing countries, encouraging them to pursue smarter and more profitable production. i agree that protectionist measures must be prevented, both by the eu and by the member states. the eu must promote good governance in the implementation of its trade policy and should require transparency before cooperation is undertaken. i support the proposals made to encourage the development of small and mediumsized enterprises in these countries by providing targeted aid. adequate wages, decent and healthy working conditions and the possibility of forming trade unions should be the unconditional requirements to which european businesses in developing countries should comply
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because trade is one of the most important policy areas in ensuring the coherence of european union policies for development. if properly implemented, trade policy measures can have a significant impact on the development of poor countries. to help achieve development goals more effectively, eu trade policy must be geared towards positive spill-over effects on local, regional and national economies, promoting the diversification of developing countries' economies, and encouraging smarter and more profitable production. in this context, trade support should be diversified and focused on those countries that need it most, in particular the least developed countries and low-income countries. new issues related to support for development through trade, such as differentiation of development levels, support for local production, and the promotion of social and environmental standards, need to be taken more into account. furthermore, european support for development through trade must cover all aspects of innovation - financial innovation, as well as technological and organisational innovation - based on best practice. developing countries should also be encouraged to make sustainable economic development a goal that forms part of the overall set of policies, strategies and actions taken at national level to diversify their economies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because this important trade instrument is designed to enable developing countries to participate more actively in international trade and to obtain additional export revenues and to support income growth and the implementation of their own sustainable development and poverty reduction policies. trade is one of the most important policy areas for ensuring eu policy coherence for development. if properly implemented, trade policy measures can have a significant impact on the development of poor countries. the main objective of eu trade policy towards developing countries must be to exploit and improve the results achieved by eu aid policy. promoting global development through non-aid measures. to help achieve development goals more effectively, eu trade policy must be geared towards positive spill-over effects on local, regional and national economies, promoting the diversification of developing countries' economies, and encouraging smarter and more profitable production.
in writing. − only by working together can we ensure policy coherence for the development of poor countries. in particular, there is a need to make effective use of the instruments for supporting development through trade and investment. particular attention should be paid to foreign direct investment, by creating a transparent, investment-friendly environment. this will promote competition, reduce red tape and implement sound macroeconomic policies, and enable developing countries to become full participants in the global economy and reap the benefits of globalisation. trade between the eu and developing countries should be based on the octs, high social and environmental standards. in addition, existing trade barriers and trade-distorting subsidies should be removed. provisions relating to corporate social responsibility should become a mandatory part of any agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on promoting development in developing countries through trade. the proposal aims to increase the trading capacity of developing countries. the european union's trade policy must be more geared to promoting the diversification of the economies of developing countries, encouraging them to pursue smarter and more profitable production. the eu must promote good governance in the implementation of its trade policy and should require transparency before cooperation is undertaken. i support the proposals made to encourage the development of small and mediumsized enterprises in these countries by providing targeted aid. adequate wages, decent and healthy working conditions and the possibility of forming trade unions should be the unconditional requirements to which european businesses in developing countries should comply. it is also important to increase the use of european union instruments to promote foreign direct investment and to combine eu subsidies with loans or venture capital. it is necessary to help developing countries to improve their domestic business environment and to meet international standards of quality, labour and environmental protection.
in writing. − i voted for this report because trade and investment between the eu, developing countries and least developed countries is a tool to promote sustainable and inclusive growth for all countries, facilitating the transfer of technologies and skills and helping to create jobs. it can also provide opportunities to increase competitiveness and productivity, to achieve greater social cohesion and to combat inequalities. the main challenges for investment policy in developing countries are twofold: at national level, investment policy must be integrated into a development strategy that includes the sdgs; and at international level, there is a need to strengthen the provisions of international investment treaties (iits) relating to development and to ensure a balance between the rights and obligations of states and investors. in this context, it is necessary to improve the cis in order to give greater emphasis to the development dimension, to achieve a balance between the rights and obligations of states and investors, to ensure sufficient political space for sustainable development policy and to make the provisions on investment promotion more specific and aligned with the objectives of sustainable development. it is important to emphasise that foreign direct investment does not in itself have a positive impact on development, and this requires appropriate regulation covering policy areas outside investment policy, such as trade, taxation, intellectual property, competition, labour market regulation, environmental policy and access to land, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because of the need to improve the synergy between trade and development policies. it is also necessary to take into account the needs and opportunities of the beneficiary countries and to promote processes such as regional integration, which can provide better opportunities to benefit from such interactions, and to give priority to measures aimed at promoting sustainable and inclusive development, job creation and capacity building, developing human capital and thereby reducing social inequalities, increasing resilience to economic shocks, supporting the development of the private sector, in particular micro-enterprises, as well as micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to encourage their participation in trade and investment activities at local, regional, cross-border, bilateral and multilateral levels, improving fiscal governance and combating corruption, tax evasion and tax avoidance, money laundering and tax havens, as well as providing technical assistance to ensure the control of investment and investment by firms, and facilitating the development of trade, as well as to provide the necessary technical assistance to facilitate the development of trade, by establishing mechanisms to control investment and trade flows, and by facilitating the development of trade, including the various technical measures necessary to facilitate trade.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the saifi report, which stresses the importance of trade and growth-oriented investment for developing countries. the report notes that the european parliament supports the european commission's objective of improving the synergy between trade and development. the communication also identifies priority areas in which investment should be encouraged to create the necessary supply and infrastructure, such as support for self-employed farmers in agriculture, improvement of the business and investment environment in industry, development of legal certainty in the services sector, dissemination of good practice in administration, etc. i believe that economic growth is inextricably linked to sustainable economic development not only in the eu but also in the surrounding regions. closer regional cooperation and the sharing of experience are essential to the development of eu values. only by ensuring close regional cooperation can we expect stable economic growth, the development of the rule of law and a safe neighbourhood.
in writing. − i support this report, as it is necessary to improve the synergy between trade and development policies in order to increase the well-being and living standards of the poorest people. eu support is essential for sustainable, inclusive growth and poverty reduction. in particular, a stable and fair legal trading system must be established. particular attention shall be paid to the priorities of employment and growth. this would be an effective way of reducing poverty. the agricultural, industrial and service sectors must be the basis for the implementation of measures to promote sustainable economic growth and development. in developing countries, profits should be reinvested in the economy and they should benefit more from trading their goods.
in writing. − the economic crisis has forced the european union and the eu member states to rethink their economic policy priorities. no country has been able to do so without significant cost cuts. in many cases, this has also affected aid to developing countries. if the eu still wants to maintain its role as a major global donor, it must adopt other, new, forms of financial partnership. it is equally important to review priorities and to improve the management of available funds on a priority basis. i voted in favour of this report because it sought to find a way out of the situation. the european parliament encourages beneficiaries to formulate national needs and to integrate strategic development plans into their policies. the document contains specific proposals. they should take technical assistance on a partnership basis. for example, the eu's strong influence in the wto (world trade organisation) may be aimed at integrating developing countries into the organisation. this would allow these countries to participate fully in world trade. it is also important to keep in mind the regional level, to promote institutional contacts and to reduce trade barriers.
for the ecr group the visa facilitation agreement is of great importance to people and strengthens people-to-people contacts by making it easier for ordinary citizens to travel. the amendments to this agreement facilitate the travel of journalists and young people, civil society and representatives of non-governmental organisations. all other people are given opportunities to share experiences, traditions and culture. the eu-ukraine joint agreement could make an effective contribution to the development of democracy, the rule of law and human rights. it is also a clear signal to the citizens of ukraine that the eu is seriously committed to strengthening its partnership with ukraine. as a lithuanian mep, this topic is of particular importance and importance to me. after all, some 600 years before the eu was founded, lithuania and poland had formed a similar union, which also included the territories of present-day belarus and ukraine. the people of these four present-day nations could move freely without any borders. this only shows that ukraine is not a stranger to the european union. i would like to reiterate my support for this agreement.
thank you, chairman. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the document he has produced, and i believe that a review of the current regulation is necessary and timely. non-euro area member states also need to have greater guarantees of receiving assistance when the economic situation so requires. but when it comes to the banking sector and its recapitalisation, we need to be consistent and open. the direct role of banks in the ongoing economic and financial crisis is already widely recognised and all financial assistance documents must therefore clearly provide for increased liability of commercial bank managers and shareholders and a greater and much more responsible role for the european central bank. in the current draft document, member states will also have to provide for an adjustment of macroeconomic indicators to address the issue of failing banks. this means that the member states or their taxpayers will again have to cover those losses. i therefore hope that the new commission proposal will take a broad assessment and provide for greater responsibility for the banking sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the discharge. the commission is responsible for the implementation of the eu budget and the management of programmes, and it is therefore essential that, in this difficult economic and financial crisis, the commission sets an example of good public governance. good governance is a key factor in maintaining citizens' trust in the european union. for the eighteenth time in a row, the court was unable to give a positive statement of assurance as to the legality and regularity of the payments. the commission should adopt the communication to parliament, the council and the court of auditors in september 2013. it is important that the commission disclose in a timely manner any suspension of payments, suspensions aimed at preventing errors and disclose all amounts recovered from each member state, international organisation or third country in the previous year through financial correction of errors and recovery procedures. the commission should make every effort to demonstrate that the correction of financial errors has adequately compensated for the damage caused by the errors and has contributed to the achievement of long-term improvements in the management and control systems.
in writing. - i support this resolution. i believe that giving the commission more power to control national budgets is a violation of democratic principles. the policy of reckless austerity is not very austere in the face of an infinite society, and the same policy of reckless waste in maintaining a bureaucratic apparatus is causing difficulties for many of the population and could be the cause of the deterioration of the eu. in view of this, the commission should change its policy direction and abandon austerity. particular attention must be paid to unemployment, which is the main problem facing the eu today. if we cannot solve this problem in the very short term, we will have to abandon all long-term projects. the commission must also stop pressuring certain countries to privatise their water sectors, as such privatisations only increase costs rather than reduce them. i believe that more attention and scrutiny should be given to the work of the european anti-fraud agency, by fully investigating suspicions about the investigation methods it uses.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i welcome all the special reports from the court of auditors which show the positive aspects of the commission's work, but also the problems the commission faces in implementing the eu budget and managing eu programmes. i agree with the conclusions and recommendations of the court of auditors contained in these reports and with the calls on the commission and the member states to take full account of these recommendations.
in writing. - i support this resolution and the report of the court of auditors. i believe that the issue of reducing overfishing capacity has not been resolved and that the measures taken have been costly and ineffective. it is important to note that the member states closing nuclear power plants have been disproportionately burdened, with the result that the lack of funding or the suspension of funding seriously threatens progress towards a higher level of decommissioning of nuclear power plants. the commission's proposal to provide additional financing for the ignalina nuclear power plant, which should be based on the protocol to the act of accession, is welcome. i believe that the lithuanian government will reach agreements on all remaining issues and will properly implement the preconditions. moreover, the timely and proper absorption of financial support will ensure that decommissioning activities are carried out safely and efficiently.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2011 budget of the european parliament. i welcome the rather positive evaluations of the court and agree with all its conclusions and recommendations. it is important that parliament takes due account of the court's recommendations, in particular by improving procurement procedures, reviewing procurement controls to ensure the most competitive prices for the services and goods offered and the most efficient use of eu taxpayers' money. as i did last year, i am in favour of parliament having only one seat in the same place as the other institutions of the european union.
in writing. − i have approved the document as the audit carried out by the court of auditors has shown that all institutions have satisfactorily applied the supervisory and control systems required by regulation (ec, euratom) no 1605/2002 in the management of administrative expenditure in 2011. the secretary-general also confirmed on 24 april 2012 that he had reasonable grounds to believe that parliament's budget had been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control procedures in place had adequately ensured the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the european parliament's budget for the financial year 2011 is therefore considered to be implemented.
in writing. - i support this resolution and the report of the court of auditors. saving means reducing expenditure rather than paying advances, deferring payments or simply redistributing funds between different parts of the budget. in particular, particular attention should be paid to the additional costs incurred by parliament in operating in three places. in this context, member states should take measures to resolve the issue of parliament's seat and posts as soon as possible. i also oppose the house of european history project, which is excessive, expensive and not relevant today. on the other hand, it is essential to ensure that members' expenditure is transparent and open. the payment of compensation for common costs must be transparent and strictly used for its intended purpose. abuse and waste of funds must be prevented.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2011 budget of the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds. the court found that significant errors were made in the payments and that they were significantly higher than in the previous year ( 5,1% in 2011 compared to 3,4% in 2010). furthermore, data coding errors are still frequent and have a negative impact on the preparation of annual financial statements. i agree with the calls for this problem to be resolved as soon as possible. the continuing shortage of workers is also a concern. i support calls on the commission to remedy this situation as soon as possible. as regards the coordination of development aid, it is important to focus more on sustainability.
in writing. - i have approved the document because the court of auditors considers that the revenue and commitments have been implemented without significant errors. the court also states that the final annual accounts of the eighth, ninth and tenth edfs give a true and fair view of the financial position of the edf in all material respects. i welcome the court's annual report, particularly the fact that it clearly identifies problem areas such as the increased error rate and budget support.
in writing. - i support this resolution. transparency and accountability are essential conditions for democratic control. only transparent and well-functioning trade relations can ensure sustainable sources of revenue. this will ensure long-term social and economic development. development support is constantly changing. budget support is a highly valuable development tool that should only be provided in a transparent and accountable manner. on the other hand, it is necessary to reduce the error rate and to address the shortcomings in the supervision and control system. more attention should be paid to budgetary management. the problems of labour shortages have also been addressed and an effective human resources policy is in place.
in writing. − i voted against giving the council discharge in 2011. i take a negative view of the council's refusal to participate in the formal meetings of the committee on budgetary control relating to the council's discharge. furthermore, the council has not provided in writing all the documents necessary for the discharge, including the full internal audit for 2011 and the annual activity reports. financial transparency of the activities of the eu institutions is essential to maintain citizens' trust in the eu. i support the european parliament's call on the secretary-general of the council to provide as soon as possible detailed answers to the questions raised in the european parliament's report and to provide the relevant documents so that the committee on budgetary control can examine the implementation of the council's 2011 budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of postponing the adoption of the decision confirming to the secretary-general of the council that the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the council continues to refuse to answer parliament's questions and effective monitoring of the implementation of the union budget requires the council to be willing to engage in an open and formal dialogue with parliament's committee on budgetary control. it is necessary to ensure that both institutions are satisfied with the cooperation. it is considered that the council is not sufficiently transparent and it is stressed that all union institutions must adhere to the same standards of transparency. parliament and the council, as legislators, should apply the same standards of transparency and the council is called upon to improve its performance in this area without delay.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. it is essential to pay greater attention to public procurement procedures, their preparation, coordination and implementation. i think it is appropriate to separate the budgets of the european council and the council. this will ensure greater transparency in financial management and better accountability of both institutions. in order to ensure effective supervision of the union budget, it is necessary to ensure better cooperation between the european parliament and the council. in this context, the council should conduct an open and formal dialogue with the committee on budgetary control in good faith. in addition, the council should apply the same high standards of transparency as parliament in order to improve its performance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the court of justice's discharge for 2011. i welcome the court's conclusion that no significant errors were detected in the payments relating to administrative and other expenditure. the court also pointed out that no significant weaknesses were identified in the audited areas relating to human resources and procurement for the court of justice. i agree with the court's concern about the very high number of cases (1 308 cases in 2011). i agree with the calls for the court of justice to examine what organisational changes would help to reduce the number of cases before it, and also with the need to allocate more human resources to the court. it is also necessary to improve the efficiency of the very long duration of judicial proceedings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this decision as it confirms to the registrar of the court of justice that the court of justice's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. in its 2011 annual report, the court of auditors stated that no significant weaknesses had been identified in the audited areas relating to human resources and procurement for the court of justice, and that no significant errors had been made in the payments relating to all administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies. it is worth noting that the court of justice has drawn up a comprehensive and detailed annual activity report, including detailed information on its human resources management.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. it should be noted that the number of cases before the court as a whole remains high. therefore, greater attention should be paid to improving efficiency in relation to the duration of the trial and to improving quality. the pace of processing should be increased and the flow of cases should be balanced. it is to be welcomed that the court is making every effort to ensure that its activities are transparent and as open as possible to the public, and that it is using a variety of means to improve the quality and efficiency of its work. however, the court's wish to have a collection of works of art is unfounded and inadequate to the present situation. this is an expensive, redundant project outside the court's remit.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the court's discharge for 2011. i welcome the fact that the court has clarified its code of conduct for members, which provides that declarations of financial interests of members must be published online. it is worrying that the number of vacancies for auditors was still high at the end of 2011, and i support calls for the court to speed up the recruitment of new staff. i agree with the calls to clarify whether the number of irregularities reported to olaf in relation to the use of eu funds reflects the actual level of corruption.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the secretary-general of the court of auditors is hereby certified that the court's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court's annual reports are audited by an independent external auditor pricewaterhousecoopers sarl in order to apply the same principles of transparency and accountability as those applied to its audited entities. attention is drawn to the auditor's opinion that the financial statements present an accurate and true reflection of the court's financial situation.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the report submitted by the independent external auditor shall give an accurate and true account of the financial situation of the court of auditors and shall enable the situation to be corrected as soon as possible in the event of certain deficiencies. in this context, the court should regularly carry out an evaluation of the quality and impact of its work. it is necessary to eliminate the large geographical imbalance created by the director posts and to ensure a geographical balance of staff at all levels. in addition, the compliance rate of timely reports should be improved in order to improve operational efficiency. i'm glad you've been able to improve your financial management. however, greater efforts must be made to preserve the best possible working environment for the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for 2011 in the economic and social committee (esc). the hr found that there were no significant errors in the payments for all years relating to the administrative expenditure of the institutions. i welcome the fact that the decision to publish the declarations of financial interests of eesc members has been implemented. i support the eesc's efforts to limit the 2013 budget to the 2012 level and welcome the reform of the rules on reimbursement of expenses to members, including the reimbursement of transport tickets on the basis of real costs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee that the committee's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court concluded that, in the light of the audit results, there were no significant errors in the payments relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the whole year. it is worth noting that the court of auditors included in its 2011 annual report observations on the conclusion of contracts with temporary and contract staff, pointing out certain inconsistencies in the guidelines for the establishment of staff levels and the recruitment of staff, and therefore calls on the european economic and social committee to ensure that such inconsistencies do not recur.
in writing. - i support this resolution. it should be noted that the committee's budget is entirely administrative in nature. this committee shall have a special status, privileged access to the union's legislative and policy-making process. in this context, it would be appropriate to finance its activities from the contributions paid by several bodies which have provided their representation. i believe that this cooperation agreement with the committee of the regions will save a lot of money. on the other hand, the committee should plan its translation activities better and start using the public procurement system. in addition, measures should be taken to prevent future instances of maladministration.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the committee of the regions' discharge for 2011. i welcome the court's conclusion that no significant errors were detected in the payments related to the administrative and other expenditure of the institutions in 2011. the decline in the level of budgetary implementation is a concern and i support the calls for action to improve this level. i support the suggestions to the committee of the regions to ensure that the organisation of staff is efficient and to help make better use of the budget allocated.
in writing. − i have given my consent to the secretary-general of the committee of the regions being informed that the committee of the regions' budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors stated in its 2011 annual report that no significant deficiencies were identified in the audited areas related to human resources and procurement for the committee of the regions. the court of auditors concluded that there were no significant errors in the payments relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2011.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the report submitted does not, however, indicate any significant weaknesses in the areas audited. it should be noted that the committee's budget is entirely administrative in nature. more attention should be paid to the structure of staff in order to better use the budget available. it is also essential to increase the level of use of funds. the committee should regularly improve the provision of translation services and develop a more accurate schedule of translation needs. it should be noted that transparency is one of the key principles of the operation. in order to avoid conflicts of interest, the declarations of financial interests of the members of the committee should be made publicly available and published online.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the european ombudsman for 2011. i welcome the rather positive assessments of the court and agree with all the conclusions and recommendations it has made. it is important that the ombudsman takes due account of the recommendations of the court of auditors. the average duration of investigations continued to be alarmingly long in 2011, with only 66% of complaints being dealt with within 12 months and 80% within 18 months. i support calls to improve these indicators. the ombudsman should indicate in his annual report the means of communication with eu citizens and the amount of budgetary resources he uses to carry out this task. it should also provide details of all human resources available to it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the european ombudsman that the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. in its 2011 annual report, the court of auditors found that the areas audited related to the human resources and procurement of the european ombudsman (hereinafter 'the ombudsman') did not show any significant weaknesses. the court of auditors concluded that there were no significant errors in the payments relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2011. however, it is requested to commit to improving financial planning in order to ensure more effective budget implementation without delay.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the report submitted is to be welcomed as not containing any major deficiencies. in addition, a higher level of utilisation of appropriations was achieved. i believe that the rate of use of funds and the improvement of financial planning should continue in the future. more attention should be paid to procedures relating to the timely provision of information on actual payments. it is essential to reduce the duration of procedures and to ensure a more efficient and prompt provision of services. delays in the investigation must be avoided.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2011 budget of the european data protection supervisor (edps). i welcome the fact that the court of auditors did not find any significant errors in the 2011 payments. the court also found that the measures taken by the supervisor in 2011 to improve the management of payments were effective. i support the calls for the supervisor to prepare an annual budget better suited to his needs, to implement the annual budget and to inform the ep about the results of the 2011 staff plan and the implementation of the recommendations made by the ep.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the european data protection supervisor that the budget of the european data protection supervisor for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors concluded that the european data protection supervisor's administrative and other expenditure for the year ended 31 december 2011 had been reimbursed in full and without material error and that the administrative and other expenditure monitoring and control systems audited were effective. in its 2011 annual report, the court found that the areas audited related to the human resources of the supervisor and public procurement did not reveal significant weaknesses. the court noted the progress made in improving the management of payments and concluded that the measures taken were effective; it also welcomed the intention of the supervisor to further improve his system of monitoring and control in a timely manner.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the commission has also examined the application of the principle of proportionality. it is worth noting that progress has been made in improving the management of benefits. this is a great boost to further improve monitoring and control systems. on the other hand, the annual budget execution indicators are not very good. a budget better adapted to the needs of the supervisor should therefore be established. moreover, greater attention should be paid to the implementation of the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness.
in writing. − i agree with the discharge for the european external action service for 2011. 2011 was the first financial year of the office and i therefore support the calls for the office to consider what lessons it could draw from the first years of its operation. the court of auditors included in its 2011 annual report observations on the payment of social benefits and allowances to staff, the conclusion of contracts for temporary staff and procurement procedures, and i therefore support the calls for the eeas to respond to these observations and take the necessary action.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying to the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy that the budget of the european external action service (eeas) for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. on the basis of the audit results, the court concluded that there were no significant errors in the payments relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for the year ended 31 december 2011. the court included in its 2011 annual report observations addressed to the eeas on the procedures for the payment of social benefits and allowances to staff, the conclusion of contracts for temporary staff, the management of the contract for the provision of protection services and public procurement. calls therefore on the eeas to respond to these comments and to take appropriate action.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the european external action service is a newly established agency. in the light of the observations made in the report, greater attention should be paid to the payment of social benefits and allowances to employees, the conclusion of contracts for temporary staff, the management of contracts for the provision of protection services and public procurement procedures. in addition, the risk of incorrect and illegal payments, which seriously jeopardise the functioning of the office, should be eliminated and an effective human resources policy established. the european external action service shall provide full information on service level agreements concluded with the commission or the council. the office should also immediately reconsider the appropriateness of delegations consisting of only one member of staff, an ambassador. in order to resolve labour disputes with local staff in third countries in an efficient manner and to reduce tensions, the office should conclude contracts with service providers. on the other hand, the office should provide a detailed explanation for the recall of the ambassador in libya.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the activities, financial management and control of the eu agencies. the number of agencies has tripled over the last decade, from 10 in 2001 to 30 in 2011, and it is therefore essential that these agencies ensure the efficiency of their expenditure and the transparency of its use. in its conclusions, the court underlines that the agencies face problems in using their budgetary resources in a timely manner and that the funds are allocated to projects that are not linked to a specific financial year. i support the european parliament's call for the budget of each agency to be determined in the future not by reference to the amounts it has received but to the individual needs of each agency.
in writing. − the agencies are an integral part of the institutional framework of the european union. they play a crucial role in implementing the union's policies and enhancing its prestige. it is therefore necessary to ensure better governance and greater transparency. in order to protect the interests of consumers and taxpayers, it is necessary to implement measures to combat conflicts of interest. the agencies are doing a good job of improving their operational efficiency, but at the same time they need to maintain sound financial management. in order to reduce costs and increase efficiency, they should be allowed to apply simplified and more flexible financial rules. in addition, the commission needs to improve its preparation work and allocate sufficient time for deliberations, studies and discussions when planning the pre-actions for mergers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2011. the court concluded that there was a need to make recruitment procedures more transparent, endorsing calls for the agency to further address this issue and to report to the discharge authority on the actions taken. it is of concern that in 2011 the agency paid daily allowances of eur 10 839 to seconded experts who were nationals of the country in which the agency is located and that these payments are not in line with the established rules according to which such allowances can only be granted to staff who are not nationals of the member state in which they are employed. i agree with the calls for an urgent solution to this problem. i support calls for the agency to improve its cooperation with national regulators, in particular by ensuring more efficient organisational working principles, and to establish a permanent venue for meetings, which would allow the agency and national regulators to save considerable funds and to address emerging connectivity and resource constraints.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency for the cooperation of european energy regulators ('the agency') for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the reliability of the accounts submitted by this agency and the legality and regularity of the financial operations carried out are to be welcomed, even though this was the first year of the agency's independent operation. only an effectively functioning agency can ensure the proper functioning of the single european gas and electricity market. in this context, it is necessary to address the shortcomings in budget planning and implementation and to properly implement the principle of budgetary annuality. illegal payments should not be allowed to recur in the future and money illegally paid out must be recovered. in addition, recruitment procedures should be more transparent.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2011. the court found that the office had not adopted and implemented all internal control standards, such as the central invoicing register. i support the calls for the authority to establish this register as soon as possible and to inform the discharge authority of the progress made. it is also necessary to ensure greater transparency in recruitment procedures and i therefore support calls for the authority to address this issue and to report to the discharge authority on the actions taken.
in writing. − i have given my consent to the discharge to be given to the administrative director of the authority for the european electronic communications regulators in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2011. the court of auditors has indicated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that all the transactions carried out were legal and regular.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the authority plays a key role in strengthening the single market for electronic communications and consistent market regulation across the european union. in order to ensure its smooth functioning, effective budgetary and financial management must be ensured in particular. the authority shall take greater account of the principle of specificity in the provision of financial information. the unlawful transfer of appropriations must not be allowed to happen again in the future. the authority must take immediate action to address these shortcomings. the central register of invoices and exclusions for accounts shall ensure the proper implementation of internal control standards. in addition, recruitment procedures must be more transparent.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2011 budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union. the court found that the centre's financial statements are reliable and that the financial transactions reflected therein are legal and regular. i agree with the court's recommendations that the translation centre should establish stricter controls on the planning of public procurement, the flow of analysed data and the tools used to plan and control the budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union that the centre's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations described therein are legal and regular.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. it is worth noting that the centre should pay greater attention to its budget planning and control. it is necessary to provide for stricter controls on the procurement planning process. in addition, to improve its performance and to avoid incorrect cost planning, stricter rules and more effective control measures should apply.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2011 budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training. i support the calls for the centre to base its budget on real needs and to make proper use of the appropriations allocated, as their carry-over to subsequent years violates the principle of annual periodicity. i welcome the fact that the centre has completed the development of the online recruitment tool recon (recruitment online) which will help it to increase the speed and efficiency of recruitment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training that the centre's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has indicated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the centre for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the transactions reflected therein are legal and regular.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the centre plays a crucial role in promoting the development of education and vocational training. the reliability of the centre's accounts, the legality and regularity of the operations carried out and the full implementation of the budget are to be welcomed. however, the principle of budgetary specificity needs to be applied more effectively and existing shortcomings in budgetary planning and programming need to be addressed. structural measures should be applied to that end. in addition, the high level of carry-overs of appropriations, which is contrary to the principle of budgetary annuality, needs to be reduced.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2011 budget of the european police college (cepol). cepol is concerned by the continuous transfer of a large proportion of the appropriations, which violates the principle of annual periodicity. i support the european parliament's call for cepol to take measures to prevent similar shortcomings from recurring in the future and to take effective measures to improve budget planning and monitoring.
in writing. − i have agreed to confirm to the director of the european police college that the college's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. taking into account the final financial statements of the college, it is recognised that shortcomings in financial management were observed in 2011, such as the use of payments under inappropriate budget lines of the same chapter or heading, and the college is therefore invited to provide the discharge authority with further information on this matter without delay, including information on the amounts and budget lines concerned, as well as the measures implemented to remedy the situation. the high level of carry-overs also reflects weaknesses in budget planning and implementation and is contrary to the principle of budgetary annuality.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i think it's appropriate to move the college to the european police office. this will allow for the effective use of existing synergies and the sharing of equipment and services. however, the decision to relocate must not have a negative impact on the staff or on the recruitment procedures. it should be noted that the appropriations carried over remain high. therefore, greater attention should be paid to the implementation of the principle of annual budgetary periodicity. in particular, shortcomings in budget planning and implementation need to be addressed and management efficiency simplified. in addition, stricter budget planning and implementation procedures should apply and recruitment procedures should be more transparent.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2011 budget of the european aviation safety agency. in its conclusions, the court noted that there are shortcomings in the staff selection procedures that threaten the transparency of recruitment and that the agency should take measures to address these shortcomings. the european parliament has made a number of calls for the agency to link the work programme and financial forecasts in its operating budget, to improve monitoring and reporting of performance, to attach to each year's budget a report on unused appropriations carried over from the previous year, explaining why these funds were not used and how and when they will be used.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director of the european aviation safety agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular.
in writing. - i agree with this resolution and the report presented by the court of auditors. it is essential that the agency continues to reduce its administrative costs and to properly implement the principle of sound financial management. in order to ensure effective budgetary and financial management, the principles of budgetary specificity and annuality should in particular be properly implemented and the high level of carry-overs reduced. the management of fixed assets should also be improved and the transparency of the procurement process ensured. on the other hand, the commission should also take action and prepare a proposal that would eliminate the contradiction between the principle of annual periodicity and the need to finance multiannual certification projects.
in writing. − i agree with the discharge for the european banking authority for 2011. it is important to note that this new institution officially started its activities on 1 january 2011 and its seat is in london. i am pleased that the authority has made significant progress in updating its procurement procedures to comply with union procurement rules and that the number of unsuccessful procurement procedures has decreased significantly. i support the calls on the authority to improve the transparency of recruitment procedures and to inform the discharge authority of the actions it has taken to address this deficiency.
in writing. − i have given my consent to the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european banking authority in respect of the implementation of the authority's budget for the financial year 2011. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european banking authority for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. it should be noted that this institution is an integral part of the european system of financial supervisors, the effectiveness of which depends on sound financial and budgetary management. in this context, i support the proposal that the budgets of the european supervisory authorities be financed exclusively from the eu budget. in addition, the provisions of the financial regulation should be more flexible and better adapted to the authority's financing system. given the importance of the functions performed, it is appropriate to increase the resources of the supervisory authorities. this will increase their efficiency and independence. the commission has also been active in the field of public procurement. however, more effective measures are needed to improve the transparency of recruitment procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2011 budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). the court of auditors in its recommendation notes that the ecdc needs to resolve the issue of carrying forward high appropriations. the centre should make better use of its appropriations. i agree that more attention should be paid to absorption capacity and to the call for the agency to reduce its annual budget if it does not take appropriate action to address this problem.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director of the european centre for disease prevention and control that the centre's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. it is noteworthy that in its report on the centre's annual accounts for the financial year 2011, the court of auditors gave a conditional opinion on the management irregularities relating to a general contract concluded in 2009, as the centre subsequently amended this contract, resulting in payments exceeding the established ceiling, which were therefore considered illegal and their amount exceeded the materiality threshold. 2011 was the first year in which the centre received a conditional opinion from the court of auditors. however, the centre consulted the court of auditors on the follow-up to the finding of the irregularity and took steps to rectify the situation as well as to prevent further possible irregularities in the future.
in writing. - i support this resolution and the report presented by the court of auditors. the effective management of the centre's budget and finances is essential to ensure the strong and reliable protection of all europeans. the centre must make more efforts to further increase the budget implementation. in particular, the number of appropriations carried over must be reduced. it should be noted that the high level of carryovers combined with the low level of accumulated expenditure is clearly contrary to the principle of budgetary annuality. furthermore, greater efforts should be made to strengthen internal control procedures, transparency and efficiency in order to strengthen europe's protection against infectious diseases.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2011 budget of the european chemicals agency. in its report, the european parliament identifies a number of shortcomings in the management of the agency and calls for them to be corrected. i support the calls for improvement of the agency's control system, strengthening of financial procedures, action plans and risk assessments. in view of the identified shortcomings, it is important that the agency further improve its planning and monitoring of public procurement and budget implementation, its planning of human resources activities and projects, and its coherence in case management.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the executive director of the european chemicals agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has indicated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular.
in writing. − i did not support the proposal to postpone the discharge decision for the european environment agency for 2011. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular. i agree that the european parliament's report contains important recommendations for the agency, such as improving communication methods, increasing the agency's transparency and public interest in its work, ensuring that the budget is used effectively, addressing the identified shortcomings in recruitment procedures, adopting an action plan and publishing a declaration of interests on the website in order to prevent possible conflicts of interest. however, i do not agree that these shortcomings should delay the ep's discharge of the agency's 2011 budget, as similar shortcomings have been identified in a number of other agencies for which the european parliament has discharged the budget and called for the correction of the identified shortcomings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of the decision confirming to the executive director of the european environment agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors did, however, state that it had received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts were legal and regular. the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has opened an internal investigation concerning the agency and its activities and, therefore, it is not possible to adopt a discharge decision, which would include the closure of the accounts of the agency.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. the european agency, an internationally recognised organisation, is the main provider of information and knowledge on the environment, with a growing number of functions. in order to improve the governance, efficiency and transparency of the agency, opaque tendering procedures should in particular be avoided. the efficiency of the public procurement system must be improved to ensure the rational use of funds. in addition, the agency needs to continuously improve its recruitment procedures. on the other hand, it is welcome that the agency has made progress in strengthening its conflict of interest policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2011 budget of the community fisheries control agency. i support the european parliament's calls for the agency to improve its annual work programme by including specific and measurable objectives, to review its internal control system and to review all administrative procedures in its work and to increase transparency in recruitment procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the executive director of the community fisheries control agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the community fisheries control agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the operations carried out on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. given the importance of the agency's tasks in the implementation of the reform of the common fisheries policy, the agency should further develop its annual work programme, setting out specific, achievable objectives. in order to continue to operate efficiently and effectively, multiannual and annual work programmes should be drawn up and monitoring, control and surveillance measures implemented more effectively. particular attention should be paid to improving the internal control system and procurement procedures and to improving transparency. it is also essential to improve the smooth running of recruitment procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to approve the discharge for the european food safety authority for 2011. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular. i agree that the european parliament's report contains important recommendations for the agency, such as how to improve its budget management in order to reduce the large amounts of appropriations carried over, to address shortcomings in the staff selection procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the executive director of the european food safety authority that the authority's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. the effective implementation of budgetary monitoring ensures a high level of budget implementation, which is to be welcomed. however, more efforts are still needed to improve the principle of budgetary annuality. in addition, budgetary planning and implementation deficiencies need to be addressed. the office must make further progress in improving the employment rate of its staff. in order to safeguard its credibility and public confidence in food safety, it is necessary to implement an effective policy on the management of conflicts of interest. in particular, dialogue with stakeholders and the public should be encouraged. conflicts of interest should be included in the list of priorities. i agree with the proposal that the revision of the office's founding regulation is a good opportunity to make radical changes that will have a positive impact on the governance structure, independence and scientific quality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the 2011 budget of the european institute for gender equality. i do not support the idea of merging the european institute for gender equality and the eu agency for fundamental rights in order to avoid duplication of work and reduce additional costs. i think it is important that the eu keeps its commitment to having at least one eu agency in each member state, and i am not in favour of lithuania losing the agency. i fully support the european parliament's proposals that savings and more efficient use of the eu budget are necessary, but this can also be done in other ways, such as by optimising public procurement procedures, allocating and using human resources more efficiently and promoting greater rationality and efficiency in spending.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director of the european institute for gender equality that the institute's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. in order to improve the efficiency, effectiveness and efficiency of operations, it is necessary to continuously improve and develop the instruments for budgetary and financial management. first, any shortcomings in budget planning and implementation must be addressed. in addition, the efficiency of management, control and supervision processes needs to be improved and adequate budgetary execution indicators ensured. particular attention should be paid to the implementation of the principles of economy, efficiency, effectiveness, transparency and budgetary annuity. the institute should also strengthen internal controls, improve asset management and calculate accumulated costs.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report by the court of auditors on the annual accounts of the authority for the financial year 2011, there are no objections to the discharge for the 2011 budget of the authority. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the authority for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular. in the context of the 2011 discharge, it is important to note that the authority only started its activities in 2011 as it was legally restructured from the committee of european insurance and occupational pensions supervisors (ceiops) and it also took over all the tasks and responsibilities of the ceiops, in addition to the new mandate. in 2011, the authority was financed by 55% from contributions from the member states and the european free trade association (efta) countries and 45% from the union budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority that the authority's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the transactions reported are legal and regular.
in writing. - i support this resolution. it is worth noting that the european insurance and occupational pensions authority is a newly created agency, and therefore its main focus has been on establishment and expansion. it plays a crucial role in creating more stable and secure financial markets. it is also an integral part of the european system of financial supervisors. in view of the current situation and the legal framework, i believe that it would be appropriate to finance the budgets of the esas exclusively from the eu budget and to increase the resources and powers. this will ensure efficiency, independence and professionalism. in order to properly implement the functions already entrusted to it, the authority should continuously improve the transparency of public procurement and recruitment procedures.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report of the court of auditors on the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2011, there are no objections to the discharge for the institute's 2011 budget. the european court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology ('the institute') for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director of the european institute of innovation and technology that the institute's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european institute of innovation and technology ('the institute') for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular. the court of auditors' report on the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2011 is welcomed.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the principle of sound financial management requires that appropriate levels of use of funds are ensured and that all obstacles to budget planning and implementation are removed. the high level of carry-overs of appropriations is contrary to the principle of annual periodicity and does not meet the requirements of financial autonomy. in view of this, the institute should take immediate measures to address these shortcomings.
in writing. − the court of auditors has given its reasoned assurance that the annual accounts of the european medicines agency ('the agency') for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular. there are therefore no grounds for not granting discharge to the agency in respect of the implementation of the budget for 2011. i would urge the agency to take account of the observations made by the european parliament and to include in the annual activity report for the following year a specific section describing the actions taken to prevent and manage conflicts of interest, and to indicate the number of cases of suspected conflicts of interest verified, the number of staff transfers from the public to the private sector or vice versa, the number and results of breach of trust procedures initiated and the sanctions imposed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the executive director of the european medicines agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in order to ensure efficient and balanced budgetary and financial management, the agency should improve the level of use of payments and reduce transfers of appropriations to comply with the principle of annual recurrence. in addition, a new system of remuneration for services provided by member states based on actual costs should be established. it is essential that the agency takes concrete action to ensure the proper implementation of the policy on the management of conflicts of interest and to eliminate existing conflicts of interest as soon as possible. the agency should also make greater efforts to improve its staff selection and procurement procedures, while maximising the principle of transparency and preventing corruption.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report of the court of auditors on the institute's annual accounts for the financial year 2011, there are no objections to the discharge for the implementation of the centre's budget for 2011. the court of auditors has indicated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the centre for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular. i would urge the agency to take into account the observations made by the european parliament and to take immediate action to increase the rate of utilisation of payment appropriations in the future, to ensure that the discharge authority is kept informed of progress made, to strengthen its financial management and to implement without delay the five key recommendations of the internal audit service (ias) and to inform the discharge authority of progress made.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction that the centre's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has indicated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the centre for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular.
in writing. - i support the resolution and the report of the court of auditors. the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction has been able to meet its budget and increase its capacity to a high degree. in order to continue to progress, it is essential that it continues to develop its planning and monitoring systems successfully and to use the appropriations for its commitments in a cost-effective, effective and efficient manner. on the other hand, the centre has to decide on the unused premises. in addition, a treasury management policy is needed to reduce and distribute financial risks. more attention should also be paid to improving recruitment procedures and streamlining public procurement procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2011, but the agency must remedy the irregularities identified in the future. the court's report notes that there is still room for improvement in the transparency of recruitment procedures and calls for the examination and prevention of potential conflicts of interest in the recruitment of experts and staff by the agency in the sector it oversees. it should be noted that the agency's founding regulation has recently been revised and given additional tasks which can be carried out more economically at european level than at national level, thus strengthening pollution prevention in the european maritime sector. i agree that these additional commitments should be reflected in the future funding of the agency, in order not to undermine the ability to carry out its current and future tasks effectively and efficiently.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the executive director of the european maritime safety agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency ('the agency') for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the reliability of the financial statements submitted by the agency and the legality and regularity of all operations are to be welcomed. however, there is a need to continue to promote the improvement of financial and budgetary management and the effectiveness of the programmes implemented. the agency needs to take a more active approach to asset management issues and at the same time implement an improved asset management policy. it is also necessary to investigate and eliminate any possible conflicts of interest. in view of this, i believe that the question of extending the agency's remit should not be addressed until the existing problems have been resolved.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report by the court of auditors on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011, there are no objections to the discharge for the 2011 budget of the agency. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular. i would urge the agency to take account of the observations made by the european parliament and to ensure greater transparency in estimates and clarification of who and what is responsible, to strengthen procurement procedures and to ensure that possible irregularities are properly addressed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the executive director of the european network and information security agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has indicated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the continuous improvement in the agency's budget implementation is to be welcomed. however, the inappropriate level of carry-over of appropriations requires greater attention to the implementation of the principle of annual budgetary periodicity. in addition, documentation of fixed assets should be improved and transparency of recruitment procedures ensured. in view of the functions and role of the agency in the field of network and information security, its headquarters should not be divided into two parts. this would be an irrational and uneconomic decision, which would not only require large amounts of money but also disrupt the agency's operations. in addition, this would create additional administrative and financial obstacles that would hit the agency particularly hard during this period of austerity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the light of the initial conclusions of the joint bureau and committee on budgets working party on the budgetary questions of the european parliament, structural and organisational reforms should be implemented with the aim of improving the efficiency of the parliament without compromising the quality of legislation and working conditions. the aim is to find ways of saving even more and using funds even more efficiently. reductions are proposed (compared to the 2013 budget) in the area of translation (-56%) and interpretation (-23%), as well as in the area of rental charges (-60%), the online tv channel web tv (-38%) and the provision of premises (-31%). it is important to note that the principle of multilingualism cannot be jeopardised by the savings in translation and interpretation services, as equal access to linguistic services must be guaranteed for members of the european parliament. in addition, appropriate working conditions should be maintained in the services providing these services. the provision of independent scientific advice and the capacity to improve the european parliament's performance as an institution vested with legislative and democratic control powers should also be improved. more efforts should be made to implement further changes, to save money and to implement structural reforms, and to align budget increases more closely with inflation.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because, in the face of the continuing economic and financial difficulties reflected in the austerity measures adopted by the member states in response to the debt crisis, parliament should continue to bear a heavy responsibility for the budget, its control and the use of the funds allocated. at the same time, parliament must maintain a delicate balance between budgetary discipline and structural austerity and the pursuit of balanced efficiency.
in writing. − i think it is appropriate to increase the funds in 2014 as this increase is linked to specific legal obligations. however, we must continue to make efforts to use resources rationally and economically, and to carry out structural and organisational reforms. attention should be paid to ensuring that efforts to achieve greater efficiency do not create obstacles to quality working conditions and the implementation of the legislative process. the measures envisaged shall not be implemented in a hurry. in order to make more efficient use of the funds, the issue of the one-seat parliament should be resolved as soon as possible. in this time of economic crisis, we cannot afford to have money wasted unnecessarily. this is too costly a burden for all of europe. it is also essential to resolve the issue of the european house of history project. i think that this project should at least be stopped, we cannot allow millions of euros to be spent on unfounded ambitions
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for financial assistance to member states whose currency is not the euro. i believe that a review of the existing regulation is necessary and timely, but i have some doubts about its effectiveness. non-euro area member states also need to have greater guarantees to receive assistance when the economic situation so requires. but when it comes to the banking sector and its recapitalisation, we have to be very consistent and very careful. the direct role of banks in the ongoing economic and financial crisis is already widely recognised and therefore the liability of commercial bank managers and shareholders, and the increased and much more responsible role of the ecb in the oversight of eu banking policy, must be clearly identified in all financial assistance related documents. we would expect the commission to come up with proposals to ensure that the activities of failed and dysfunctional commercial banks are not compensated by eu-guaranteed loans, which would then have to be covered by the same eu taxpayers. if this is not done, the eu will have to borrow money to deal with the consequences, and i therefore very much hope that the new commission proposal will fundamentally assess and review the responsibility of the banking sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the global economic and financial crisis has had a profound impact on all member states, increasing national budget deficits, worsening the balance of payments and increasing the general debt. the balance of payments facility is welcomed as a means of harmonising conditions between euro-area and non-euro-area member states. this would aim to simplify financial support procedures in the euro area and outside the euro area. this agreement, inter alia, significantly increases the transparency and accountability of the procedures for requesting and awarding financial assistance by member states in difficulty. policy makers are currently laying the foundations for the future banking union. the latter consists of three main components: the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), the single resolution mechanism and the deposit guarantee scheme. the council, parliament and the commission have just concluded negotiations on the first pillar of the structure, which provides for a single supervisory authority for the euro area member states under the european central bank. the mechanism is also open to non-euro area member states that would like joint supervision.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because this balance of payments proposal aims to simplify financial support procedures in the euro area and outside the euro area. the balance of payments proposal does not provide for the possibility for member states whose currency is not the euro to have recourse to financial instruments that are fully equivalent to those under the european stability mechanism (esm). the update would help to ensure a level playing field between euro-area and non-euro-area member states and simplify the procedure for triggering the application of the balance of payments facility. in order to ensure a genuine level playing field between euro-area and non-euro-area member states, a trend towards the use of bank recapitalisation by non-euro-area member states should be maintained.
in writing. − i support this report, which focuses on the important issue of balance of payments, with the aim of simplifying financial support procedures in euro area and non-euro area countries. balance of payments financial assistance is important in helping member states to improve their administrative capacity. as the european financial stabilisation mechanism is abandoned and the balance of payments is switched to the euro, the aid balance between current and future regulation is important for non-euro area countries. in addition, in order to ensure a level playing field between euro-area and non-euro-area member states, it is necessary to ensure that non-euro-area member states have access to bank recapitalisation.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. this is the first major step forward in the process of harmonising conditions and simplifying the financial assistance procedure in the euro area and outside the euro area. in view of the consequences of the financial and economic crisis, i believe that it is appropriate to allow non-euro area countries to participate in the single supervisory mechanism. this will give these countries the same rights and obligations as euro area countries. it should be noted that the balance of payments facility will contribute to a more efficient use of union funds, as well as to reducing the deficit of national budgets, the general debt and the balance of payments.
in writing. − the crisis has prompted the european union to embark on economic reforms. they are mainly targeted at euro area countries. however, it is important to keep the unity of the eu in mind when implementing reforms, otherwise the integrity of the internal market will be compromised. i was in favour of this regulation because it aims to ensure a level playing field for all eu countries. the crisis has not just affected the euro area. comparing the euro area countries with a stability mechanism (eur 500 billion) with the amount of aid available to non-euro area countries (eur 50 billion) shows that the latter have very limited access to assistance. the new regulation will not only ensure the functioning of the stability mechanism. it will also provide for more favourable credit standards and better borrowing conditions for both euro and non-euro area countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the continuing severe economic downturn in a number of euro area member states is having a negative impact on the economies and budgets of a growing number of euro area members. the economic crisis has led to huge cash flows in certain countries, which have increased the difficulties in financing the economies of those countries and have made them unstable in the short and even longer term. this imbalance has a major distortive effect, with costly negative externalities, and poses challenges to the stability of the euro area and all its economies. the imbalances can only be reduced by fully implementing the broader euro area crisis solutions in order to develop a harmonised approach that helps to reconcile solidarity and responsibility. the european central bank should implement a single supervisory mechanism in the eu as soon as possible to enhance the soundness of the euro area banking system. the bank should make every effort to contribute to the stabilisation of markets, in particular through the securities markets programme, the longer-term refinancing operations and the open money operations, and to identify and develop structural solutions to the crisis as soon as possible. in the long term, these actions need to be underpinned by a more unified banking system and the integration of finance and policy to the point of eventually establishing a common deposit insurance and partial debt-sharing system.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because the european central bank (ecb) needs to do more to ensure that the low-cost loans it provides to banks reach the real economy. i also believe that the ecb should be made more transparent. over the past two years, the ecb has stepped up its activities in financial markets to help ease interest rate pressures on debt-ridden euro area countries. in addition, the ecb, together with the european commission and the international monetary fund (the so-called 'creditors' network'), monitors how countries implement the conditions for financial assistance. the ecb and the european commission should be more accountable to european and national parliaments.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the impact of the economic and social crisis should be a primary consideration in assessing the actions of the european central bank. however, the dialogue on the future of european monetary union should be a key factor. the ecb must do more to maintain price stability and prevent excessive inflation. moreover, the ecb must take bold and decisive action not only within the euro area but also beyond it. i think that using non-standard measures to restore the monetary policy transmission mechanism is quite risky. this may increase volatility and create favourable conditions for asset bubbles in financial markets.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report by the court of auditors on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011, there are no objections to the discharge for the 2011 budget of the agency. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular. i would urge the agency to take account of the observations made by the european parliament and to correct certain inconsistencies which have persisted for several years, particularly the regrettable large carry-overs of appropriations to the next financial year. the european parliament warned the agency that if large amounts of appropriations were to be carried over in the future and the principle of budgetary discipline were to be breached again, a discharge could not be granted in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the executive director of the european railway agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european railway agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations carried out on the basis of those accounts are legal and regular.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. however, i believe that the agency's operation in two locations is an irrational, uneconomic and very costly solution. in order to improve operational efficiency, the council should address the issue of one headquarters as soon as possible and prevent unnecessary expenditure. this would save the agency a lot of money that could be used for better purposes. in addition, the agency should pay greater attention to improving recruitment procedures and ensuring full transparency and equal treatment. given the important role played by the agency in the creation of a european railway area without frontiers, the policy on the management of conflicts of interest needs to be strengthened in order to identify, manage and resolve conflicts correctly and effectively.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report by the court of auditors on the annual accounts of the authority for the financial year 2011, there are no objections to the discharge for the 2011 budget of the authority. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the authority for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular. the european securities and markets authority is a newly created agency with its seat in paris and which officially started operations on 1 january 2011. i would urge the authority to take account of the court's request to adopt the rules for the implementation of the staff regulations of the european securities and markets authority as soon as possible and to conclude an interinstitutional agreement with the european anti-fraud office.
in writing. − i have agreed to confirm to the executive director of the european securities and markets authority that the authority's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report of the court of auditors on the annual accounts of the european training foundation for the financial year 2011, there are no objections to the discharge for the 2011 budget of the foundation. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the fund for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular. i would urge the fund to take into account the observations made by the european parliament and to inform the discharge authority of the actual contribution to the fund for the financial year 2010, to implement the remaining recommendations of the internal audit service (ias) from previous audits and to focus on effective reporting to the fund's management board and key stakeholders, thus enabling them to scrutinise the fund's activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the execution of the foundation's budget for the financial year 2011 to the director of the european training foundation. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the fund for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the transactions covered by the accounts are legal and regular. at the end of 2011, the fund recorded a positive budget implementation result of eur 117 686,58.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. the foundation is a centre of analysis and expertise that helps to plan and implement the eu's external policy in the field of human resources development. this is one of the key factors helping not only the eu but also other countries to better exploit their human resource potential by improving or reforming their human resource development policies. in view of the broad scope of its activities and its limited resources, the legality and regularity of the operations reported by the fund are to be welcomed. however, in order to reduce and properly allocate financial risks and ensure a sufficient return, the fund should adopt and implement an official treasury policy which clearly defines the lines and principles of action.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' favourable report on the annual accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2011, there are no grounds for disagreeing with the discharge for the 2011 budget of the agency. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular. the agency's budget for 2011 was eur 16,4 million, compared to eur 15,5 million in 2010, an increase of 5,8%. calls on the agency to conclude a headquarters agreement as soon as possible and to keep the discharge authority duly informed of the progress of the negotiations, and calls on the member states hosting the agency to take action to accelerate the negotiations and conclude an agreement as soon as possible;
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director of the european agency for safety and health at work that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. the european agency for safety and health at work plays a crucial role in improving working conditions in europe and in building social and economic stability in europe. given the agency's role in creating safer, healthier and more productive workplaces in europe, it is essential that it carries out its activities in accordance with a realistic annual work programme. there shall be no obstacles to the implementation of the actions envisaged. the principle of annual budgetary periodicity must be strictly observed. the agency must also do everything it can to speed up the negotiations and finally conclude a headquarters agreement.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report of the court of auditors on the annual accounts of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2011, there are no objections to the discharge for the agency for the financial year 2011. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular. the euratom supply agency was established in 1958 in luxembourg, but in 2008 the new statutes of the agency were established and it became an agency of the european union. in 2011, the agency did not receive any subsidies to cover its operating costs and all the costs incurred by the agency in implementing its 2011 budget were covered by the commission. although this has been the case since the agency was established in 2008, it is not satisfactory as the agency does not have an independent budget. i consider the commission's decision to provide a specific budget line for the agency in 2012 to be a major achievement in addressing the issues related to the activities of this agency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director-general of the euratom supply agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that all the operations carried out have been carried out in accordance with the law and in accordance with the rules.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. it should be noted that the agency plays a very important role in the market for nuclear materials and services. it not only coordinates and finances the research programmes of the member states, but also ensures the security and safety of nuclear energy supply. the results of operations and cash flows reported in the financial statements are, in all material respects, legitimate and orderly. it should be noted that the agency does not have an independent budget, but is virtually integrated into the commission. the agency has not received any subsidies to cover its operating costs, and therefore the commission covers all costs. in view of this situation, the commission should finally decide on the form and organisation of the agency.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report of the court of auditors on the annual accounts of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2011, there are no objections to the discharge for the 2011 budget of the foundation. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the fund for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular. i would urge the foundation to take account of the observations made by the european parliament and to draw up written instructions describing the fund's essential activities and to take due account of the recommendations made by the internal audit service and to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken in this regard.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions that the foundation's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that all the operations carried out have been carried out in accordance with the law and in the correct manner.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. in the current economic and financial crisis, the fund plays a vital role in planning and creating better working and living conditions in the union. given the importance of the functions it performs in ensuring high standards of living and working in the eu, the fund should exercise stricter budgetary monitoring and make greater efforts to prevent delays. first, the principle of annual budgetary periodicity must be more strictly respected. in addition, recruitment procedures must be made more transparent and effective.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report by the court of auditors on the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2011, there are no obstacles to the discharge for eurojust for the financial year 2011. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular. i would urge eurojust to take into account the observations made by the european parliament and to inform the discharge authority of the steps taken to avoid carry-overs, to address the excessive vacancy, to correct the shortcomings identified in the planning and implementation of recruitment procedures and to properly implement the recommendations of the internal audit service and to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken in this regard.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director of administration of eurojust that the budget of eurojust for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of eurojust for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular. the balance of the profit and loss account of eurojust's 2011 budget was positive and amounted to eur 2 496 985,21.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. the transactions reported in the financial statements are legal and regular in all material respects. i believe that eurojust should make greater efforts to implement concrete measures to improve the budgeting process and to increase the levels of payments. the budget forecasts should be more accurate in order to reduce the amounts of appropriations carried over. the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness require that audits of sound financial management be carried out on a regular basis. moreover, greater attention should be paid to ensuring the transparency of recruitment procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the annual value of the cheques market in the european union is more than eur 52 billion. almost 70% of the cheques market is made up of prepaid telecommunications, with a smaller share of gift and discount cheques. differences in national vat rules for cheques have a negative impact on the market. instead of actually being able to benefit from the benefits of the single market, companies face double taxation problems and difficulties in expanding their business outside the country. the eu rules applicable to the vat arrangements for the taxation of cheques should therefore be harmonised, as such harmonisation could have a positive impact on businesses. in addition, it would be possible to avoid double taxation and avoid uncertainties regarding the tax compliance obligations. it would also remove the loopholes which could be exploited by certain companies to avoid paying taxes, due to the discrepancies between member states. a distinction should be made between prepaid telecommunications credits (i.e. cheques) and mobile payment services, which are charged differently. it is necessary to ensure that confusion does not arise as payment technologies change, in particular with the rise of mobile payments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because the purpose of this proposal is to clarify and harmonise the eu rules on the vat treatment of cheques. this will have a positive impact on businesses by avoiding double taxation and uncertainties about tax compliance obligations. the adoption of the proposal would also remove the loopholes which are open to certain companies that avoid paying taxes due to the discrepancies between member states. the new rules are also in line with the broader strategy of the digital agenda for europe, in particular its objective of creating a digital single market. this is a good way to remove one of the remaining barriers to crossborder businesses. the current proposal will benefit both businesses and consumers. the operation of loyalty schemes and gift vouchers will be greatly facilitated. this proposal will help businesses to avoid market failures and double taxation or zero taxation. as regards consumers, it will effectively remove the tax obstacles that hinder the functioning of european-wide systems, thereby increasing the access of consumers to services.
in writing. − indirect payment instruments such as gift or discount cards or cheques are becoming an increasingly common part of crossborder business. i support this document, which will make it easier for businesses to use these instruments by establishing uniform rules applicable throughout the european union.
in writing. - i agree with the proposed amendments to the directive. it is essential that a uniform taxation regime, based on the principles of neutrality and transparency, is in place throughout the eu. taking into account the interests of businesses and consumers, double taxation and tax evasion must be prevented. i believe that the new regulation will remove barriers to business innovation, ensure fair competition and strengthen the competitive environment.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report by the court of auditors on the annual accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2011, there are no objections to the discharge for the 2011 budget of the office. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2011 are sufficiently reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular. the year 2011 was the second year in which the office operated as a union agency from a financial point of view. i would urge the european police office to take account of the observations made by the european parliament and to adopt the rules for implementing the provisions of the office (and related internal measures), to develop a training and skills development framework, to include in its annual work programme, as a financing decision, information on the planned activities related to public procurement, an overview and to detail the organisational description of its tasks by providing a concise description of the roles and objectives of the services and departments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director of the european police office that the office's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that all the operations carried out are legal and regular. the year 2011 was the second year in which the office operated as a union agency from a financial point of view.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in view of the economies of scale and progress in cooperation in the fight against crime, it is necessary to carry out a thorough assessment of the merger of europol and the european police college. it should be noted that efforts to better adhere to the principle of annual periodicity and to improve its planning and budgeting process are insufficient. measures to increase the use of payments for administrative and operational expenditure should be taken more rapidly. europol should also respond more actively to the court's observations and address existing weaknesses as quickly as possible, in particular in relation to the management of the institution, and improve the transparency of procurement and recruitment procedures.
in writing. − given that the court of auditors has not made any critical remarks in its report, there are no obstacles to disapprove the discharge for the european union agency for fundamental rights for 2011. in addition, the agency has taken steps that could serve as examples of good practice for other agencies, such as the development of a programme for the preparation of standard procurement process documents and the daily update of information on budget implementation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has indicated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that all the operations carried out have been carried out in accordance with the law and in accordance with the rules.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. the reports submitted are a welcome reflection of the agency's real financial situation. while these transactions are legal and regular in all essential respects, the european union agency for fundamental rights needs to make greater efforts to improve the budgetary process. in particular, it should increase the use of payments for administrative and operational expenditure more actively. in addition, greater attention should be paid to the well-being of workers and to the resolution of internal conflicts. i believe that the agency should make greater efforts to address the shortcomings identified during the audit and take all necessary measures to prevent their recurrence in the future.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report by the court of auditors on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011, there are no objections to the discharge for the 2011 budget of the agency. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular. i would urge the agency to take into account the observations made by the european parliament on the need to ensure sound financial management practices and the limitation of the practice of carrying over appropriations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union ('the agency') for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. however, parliament reiterated that the practice of carrying over appropriations should be strictly limited and that it should not interfere with sound financial management practices, and called on the agency to follow the principle of annual periodicity in future, and also called on the agency to carry out ex post controls of the grants awarded in the context of the preparation of the on-the-spot visits of its representatives.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report by the court of auditors on the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2011, there are no objections to the discharge for the 2011 budget of the agency. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular. the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 was eur 38,7 million from the union budget (eur 8,2 million in operating grant and eur 30,5 million in operating expenditure), which is significantly higher than in 2010 (eur 15,9 million).
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the executive director of the european gnss agency that the agency's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has indicated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the agency for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the transactions reflected therein are legal and regular.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report of the court of auditors on the annual accounts of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2011, there are no grounds for disagreeing with the discharge for the 2011 budget of the joint undertaking. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations reported therein are legal and regular. the artemis joint undertaking was established in 2007 for a period of 10 years. its purpose is to define and implement a research agenda for the development of key technologies for embedded computing systems in a wide range of applications, with a view to promoting european competitiveness and sustainability and enabling the emergence of new markets and the application of technologies for the benefit of society.
in writing. − i have agreed to confirm to the executive director of the artemis joint undertaking that the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 are reliable. however, the court of auditors gave a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions reflected in the joint undertaking's financial statements.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report of the court of auditors on the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2011, there are no obstacles to the discharge of the joint undertaking's 2011 budget. however, the court of auditors gave a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions reflected in the joint undertaking's financial statements. the clean sky joint undertaking was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years to accelerate the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the eu with a view to their early deployment. it was found that the joint undertaking did not fully implement the internal control and financial information system in 2011, for example, it did not implement new tools for the management of data related to declarations of expenditure submitted by members and beneficiaries. the level of error detected in the audits was also 6,16%. i would encourage the joint undertaking to take into account the observations made by the court of auditors and the european parliament and to increase the quality of ex ante controls related to the management of grants, to inform the discharge authority of the results of the ex post audits carried out by this joint undertaking and to prepare a detailed progress report with concrete proposals on how to progressively reduce the level of errors.
in writing. − i have agreed to confirm to the executive director of the clean sky joint undertaking that the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 are reliable. however, the court of auditors gave a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions reflected in the joint undertaking's financial statements.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report of the court of auditors on the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2011, there are no obstacles to the discharge of the joint undertaking's 2011 budget. however, the court of auditors gave a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions reflected in the joint undertaking's financial statements. the eniac joint undertaking was established on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years to develop and implement a research agenda to develop key nanoelectronics technologies. the audit identified certain weaknesses in internal controls, a significant level of error and delays in the preparation of financial statements. i would therefore encourage the joint undertaking to take account of the observations of the court of auditors and the european parliament on the full implementation of the internal control and financial information systems.
in writing. − i have agreed to confirm to the executive director of the eniac joint undertaking that the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 are reliable. the court of auditors delivered a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the joint undertaking's financial statements.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report of the court of auditors on the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2011, there are no obstacles to the discharge of the joint undertaking's 2011 budget. however, the court of auditors gave a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions reflected in the joint undertaking's financial statements. the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking was established in may 2008 as a public-private partnership undertaking to run until 31 december 2017 with the aim of developing market-ready products and thus facilitating additional industry efforts to rapidly deploy fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. the joint undertaking became financially independent only in november 2010 and in 2011 it produced its first annual accounts for the full financial year. the audit revealed a significant error rate and i would therefore encourage the joint undertaking to take into account the comments made by the court of auditors and the european parliament and to prepare a detailed progress report with concrete proposals on how to reduce the error rate progressively.
in writing. − i voted in favour of certifying the director of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking that the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking was established by regulation (ec) no 521/2008 in may 2008 as a public-private partnership undertaking to operate until 31 december 2017 with the aim of developing market-ready products and thus facilitating additional industry efforts to rapidly deploy fuel cell and hydrogen technologies. the court of auditors has stated that it has received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 are reliable. the court of auditors delivered a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the joint undertaking's financial statements.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report of the court of auditors on the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2011, there are no obstacles to the discharge of the joint undertaking's 2011 budget. however, the court of auditors gave a conditional opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions reflected in the joint undertaking's financial statements. the joint undertaking 'new medicines' was set up in december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the aim of significantly improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process and the long-term objective of making the pharmaceutical sector produce more effective and safer innovative medicines. the joint undertaking should therefore immediately increase the quality of its ex ante controls, in particular in the area of grant management, inform the discharge authority of the results of the follow-up ex post audit processes carried out by the joint undertaking and prepare a detailed progress report with specific proposals on how to progressively reduce the level of errors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the approval of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative 'new medicines' for the closure of the accounts for the financial year 2011. the joint undertaking was established to implement the joint technology initiative 'new medicines' for a period of 10 years. it was established to significantly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process and to pursue the long-term goal of the pharmaceutical sector producing more effective and safer innovative medicines. the court of auditors informed that it had received reasonable assurances that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 were reliable and that the transactions reported therein were legal and regular.
in writing. − in view of the favourable report of the court of auditors on the joint undertaking's annual accounts for the financial year 2011, there are no obstacles to the discharge of the joint undertaking's 2011 budget. the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy was established in march 2007 for a period of 35 years and started to operate autonomously in march 2008. i support the calls made by the european parliament for the full implementation and use of the integrated tool for budgetary, financial and operational information.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of certifying the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy that the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the court of auditors has informed that it has received a reasoned opinion regarding the reliability of the annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the financial transactions underlying them for the financial year 2011. in this case, the closure of the accounts of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2011 is also approved.
in writing. − i have given my consent to the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking to be informed that the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 has been implemented. the sesar joint undertaking was established in february 2007 to implement the single european sky air traffic management research programme (sesar) which aims to modernise air traffic management in europe. the court of auditors has stated that it has obtained sufficient assurance that the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2011 are reliable and that the financial operations conducted thereunder have been legal and regular.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the hague convention of 23 november 2007 on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance. the purpose of this proposal is to ensure the effective recovery of such benefits at international level. the early entry into force of the convention in the european union is important in order to strengthen the protection of children. i support the rapporteur's proposal to make the necessary amendments to the convention decision as soon as possible, which would bring the convention into force.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the hague convention of 23 november 2007 on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance is an important instrument for citizens, as it provides a mechanism by which child support obligations can be imposed on a debtor residing in a third country and required to be enforced. the european parliament has already approved this convention, which was signed on behalf of the european union on 6 april 2011. however, the deposit of an instrument of approval is necessary for the application of this convention to the european union. as is customary in the case of such international conventions, the deposit of the instrument of approval must include information on the national central authorities and any doubts that might be raised by certain articles of the convention. after consultation with the member states, certain amendments are now necessary in order to allow the deposit of the instrument of approval. in particular, the amendments relate to the situation in cyprus, latvia, luxembourg and portugal. however, these amendments need to be approved as soon as possible in order to enable the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance to enter into force as soon as possible with regard to the european union.
in writing. − i have supported this proposal because the hague convention of 23 november 2007 on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance is an important instrument for citizens, as it provides a mechanism by which child support obligations can be imposed on a debtor residing in a third country and required to be enforced. the convention has already been approved by parliament and signed on behalf of the european union on 6 april 2011. however, the deposit of the instrument of approval is necessary for the application of the convention to the european union. as is customary in the case of such international conventions, the deposit of the instrument of approval must include information on the national central authorities and any doubts that might be raised by certain articles of the convention. after consultation with the member states, it is now necessary to make certain amendments to the decision on the approval of annexes ii and iii to the convention in order to allow the deposit of the instrument of approval. in particular, the amendments relate to the situation in cyprus, latvia, luxembourg and portugal. i agree with the view that it is necessary to adopt these amendments urgently in order to enable the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance to enter into force as soon as possible with regard to the european union.
in writing. - i support the commission's proposal to amend the council decision. given the importance of the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance, it is necessary to accelerate its entry into force in the eu. this will simplify the procedure for recovery of maintenance not only within the eu but also outside it. it will be possible to recover maintenance faster and more easily not only from persons living in the european union but also from persons living in other countries. this will prevent abuse and will ensure that parents are properly responsible for the material support of their minor children.
in writing. − the hague convention on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance of 23 november 2007 should be seen first and foremost as a measure to protect children by ensuring the conditions of living necessary for the child's development. even though it is their primary responsibility under the law, many people try to avoid paying family maintenance by moving to another country. the convention specifically concerns the situations when recovery of maintenance for the child from responsible persons has to be secured, where such persons live in a state different from that of the child. in 2010 the ep took an appropriate measure and approved the council decision on the conclusion of the hague convention on behalf of the eu. unfortunately, due to the procedural aspect the convention is still not in force for the european union. i voted in favour of this report, since i believe the changes to the text of the council decision have to be approved as soon as possible for the convention to be enforced in the member states, so that the eu citizens could benefit from the international mechanism of the child support and other family maintenance recovery.
in writing. serbia is making progress in reforms, but there is still a lot of work to be done. one of the most important is the normalisation of relations with neighbours, primarily kosovo. i'm glad we have this conversation. a favourable business and investment environment is one of the criteria for eu membership, and there must also be clear progress. serbia's main trading partner the eu accounts for as much as 88% of foreign direct investment in serbia. if investors in one eu country are facing problems, they can all be facing similar problems. the eu is not only a political and economic union, but also a union of values. the statement by the president of serbia denying the genocide in srebrenica is a worrying signal. serbia must continue its efforts at historical reconciliation and do homework such as the publication of the secret communist archives. by opening up and reconciling with its past and neighbours, and by ensuring the rights of ethnic and religious minorities, serbia can become an important player in ensuring security and stability in the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu-ukraine visa facilitation agreement. the agreement on visa facilitation is important for the people of ukraine and strengthens people-to-people contacts. it is important to emphasise that ukrainian citizens, like citizens of eu member states, have the right to travel within the eu without a visa. i am in favour of more favourable conditions for groups of citizens such as representatives of civil society organisations, young people, representatives of non-governmental organisations and journalists. i also support the modification of the price of the services on request (up to eur 35), where the additional service charge for the services on request has unjustifiably increased the price to eur 70. i fully support the rapporteur's position that a joint eu-ukraine commitment can make an effective contribution to the development of democracy in ukraine, the rule of law and human rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the visa facilitation agreement is of great importance to people and strengthens people-to-people contacts by making it easier for ordinary citizens to travel. despite the considerable success of the agreement between the european community and ukraine on the issuance of visas (only 3,3% of visa applications were rejected), it was noted that some additional amendments are needed to eliminate existing distortions of the text or differences in its interpretation. it is necessary to extend the category of visa applicants subject to simplified requirements for travel documents to include representatives of civil society organisations, technical staff accompanying journalists and representatives of the liberal professions attending international exhibitions, conferences and seminars. the scope of the agreement should be extended to include the application of a visa-free regime to citizens holding biometric official passports. the eu has also provided a number of technical assistance to ukraine in the area of visa policy. the eu should also provide for the possibility of visa-free travel for ukrainians to the european union, as provided for in the agreement.
in writing. − i supported the proposal as the introduction of a visa-free regime for ukrainian citizens travelling to eu countries should not depend on the political situation of eu-ukraine relations. the eu should ensure that the visa waiver is effective and proportionate to the needs of the citizens of ukraine. the visa facilitation agreement is of great importance to people and strengthens people-to-people contacts by making it easier for ordinary citizens to travel. the amendments to this agreement facilitate the travel of civil society and ngo representatives, journalists and young people. the eu-ukraine joint commitment can make an effective contribution to the development of democracy, the rule of law and human rights by facilitating contacts and travel between the people of the two countries developing relations.
in writing. − this decision is important for the people of ukraine and a significant step not only towards visa-free travel, but also in the process of ukrainian european integration in general. this visa facilitation agreement, in force since 2008, brings the eu and ukraine closer together through facilitated people-to-people contacts. the agreement has proved successful and is now being extended to facilitate travel for civil society and ngos, journalists and young people. i believe that ukraine's future lies in the european union, and that membership would benefit not only ukraine itself but also, of course, the eu. i hope that both ukraine and the eu will be fully prepared to sign the agreed association and free trade agreements in the run-up to the eastern partnership leaders' meeting in vilnius.
in writing. − i am in favour of the conclusion of this agreement, in view of the successful implementation of the previous agreement. the new agreement is another major step towards establishing a visa-free regime between ukraine and the european union. the provisions of this agreement will result in significantly improved procedures for ukrainian citizens and the removal of obstacles to the issuing of visas. in particular, a wider circle of persons will be entitled to a simplified visa. the agreement to extend the scope of the visa waiver to include the visa-free regime is welcome. however, it is necessary to ensure that the visa-free regime is not dependent on the political relations between the eu and ukraine. this should be seen as an attempt to develop open and trusting relations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the facilitation of the visa regime for moldovan citizens for short-term trips to eu member states. in my opinion, the simplification of the requirements for documents confirming the purpose of travel for categories of moldovan citizens such as: journalists and members of their technical teams; close relatives of eu citizens; participants in official eu cross-border cooperation programmes; drivers of international journeys working for freight and passenger transport companies is a welcome step. i also welcome the visa waiver for short-term visits for citizens of the republic of moldova holding biometric passports. i agree with the rapporteur that the above amendments can be seen as an incentive for moldova to implement reforms in the area of freedom, security and justice. moreover, looking ahead, these developments can be seen as the beginning of closer ties with the european union. this resolution promotes people-to-people contacts, economic development in the republic of moldova, dialogue between the eu and moldova in the fields of science and culture, and the well-being of citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in the light of the expectations of the republic of moldova's membership of the european union, visa facilitation is a step forward and promotes people-to-people contacts, economic development, scientific and cultural dialogue, stability, security and the well-being of citizens. in the past, the abolition of restrictions on movement has led to an increase in migration, but in the long term it has stabilised. free movement benefits the eu economy and responds to the needs of the eu labour market. in addition, it will reduce the costs and expenses associated with travel to the schengen area. in addition, the issuing of visas for citizens of the republic of moldova wishing to stay for 90 days in any 180-day period is facilitated, as is the exemption from the visa requirement for citizens of the republic of moldova under certain conditions. the short-stay visa waiver for specific categories of applicants will not alter the conditions of entry and stay of moldovan citizens which are laid down in the schengen borders code for short visits and in the national law of the member states for long visits. the commission has also concluded that the conditions for entry and stay in the republic of moldova are not met.
in writing. − i have agreed to the proposal as this agreement on visa facilitation between the european union and moldova constitutes the original agreement and contains amendments to the benefit of moldovan citizens. the purpose is to facilitate the issuing of visas for citizens of the republic of moldova wishing to stay for 90 days in any 180-day period and to provide for visa-free travel for moldovan citizens under certain conditions. the future introduction of a visa-free regime for moldovan citizens travelling to eu countries for short periods of time will enhance cooperation with the eu and pave the way for closer relations with the european union. in the light of the expectations of the republic of moldova for eu membership, this amended agreement is a step forward and promotes people-to-people contacts, economic development, scientific and cultural dialogue, stability, security and the well-being of citizens. the visa facilitation will reduce the costs and expenses associated with travel to the schengen area. this visa facilitation agreement allows the eu and the republic of moldova to move closer together and to avoid dividing lines between the eu and its neighbours.
in writing. − as the commission has noted, moldova is one of the eastern partnership countries which has made significant progress in implementing the visa liberalisation action plan. today's decision is a major step forward in improving mobility. this amended agreement significantly simplifies the entry barriers for ngos, youth and civil society representatives to the eu, thus promoting people-to-people contacts, economic development, scientific and cultural dialogue, stability, security and the well-being of citizens, and reducing the costs and expenses associated with travel to the schengen area. moldova is undoubtedly one of the most ambitious eastern partnership countries with european aspirations. i hope that these aspirations will be consolidated by the signing of the relevant agreements at the eastern partnership leaders' meeting in vilnius.
in writing. − i support the conclusion of this agreement on visa facilitation. it is a major step forward towards closer mutual cooperation, economic development, scientific and cultural dialogue for development, as well as stability, security and the well-being of citizens. it should also provide an impetus for moldova to pursue reforms in the areas of freedom, security and justice and to become a reliable partner of the eu. the implementation of the provisions of this agreement will facilitate the visa acquisition process for moldovan citizens and reduce costs and expenses.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the financial and economic crisis is having a negative impact on developing and least developed countries, as is most clearly seen in the declining demand for their exports, the high level of indebtedness, the risk of a decline in foreign direct investment and the decline in official development assistance. this also has an impact on human rights, as fewer resources are available to ensure social and economic rights and more people are becoming impoverished. the global economic crisis has dramatically changed living standards in the developing world over the past decade. in a quarter of developing economies, inequality levels have increased and access to education, food, land and credit has been limited, social tensions have increased, sometimes leading to brutal repression, and violations of fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and the right to access and disseminate information have increased. in view of this situation, the eu and its member states must continue to uphold their bilateral and multilateral commitments in relation to official development assistance and the objectives set out in the un millennium declaration. the commission and the member states must protect human rights in the implementation of all trade and investment agreements concluded or revised. member states shall not allow any bargaining power which reduces their capacity to comply with their human rights obligations in order to secure access to export markets or to attract investors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because of the need to protect and promote human rights and fundamental freedoms (civil, political, economic, social and cultural) as a fundamental principle of the european union's foreign policy, which also covers all other policies as enshrined in the treaty of lisbon, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the protection of human rights is a fundamental principle of the eu's foreign policy. no crisis can justify restrictions on these rights. budgetary constraints must not be allowed to reduce the guarantees for the implementation of human rights. all governments must not only legally recognize these rights but also ensure their political protection. even in the most crisis-ridden conditions, a minimum level of basic social and economic rights must be guaranteed. it is essential that special attention be paid to the interests of the most vulnerable groups of the population. investment in sustainable agriculture and continued food subsidies are needed as one of the key measures to combat food shortages.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important that the proposed regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european demographic statistics be adopted as soon as possible and that demographic statistics of the european population be harmonised. it is important to note that the european demographic regulation should provide for a uniform definition of terms in line with the regulation on community statistics on migration and international protection and the regulation on population and housing censuses. it is also important to produce high-quality and comparable demographic statistics not only at national but also at regional level, as this would help to provide a more complete picture of the demographic situation in the european union. the european parliament proposes to include in its report a review provision according to which the commission should submit a report to the european parliament and the council on the implementation of this regulation by 31 december 2018 and every five years thereafter. in that report, the commission should assess the quality of the data submitted by the member states and their impact on the specific objectives set out in the regulation. in order to ensure gender equality, the european parliament recommends that a recital be included in the report, indicating the strategic objective of the beijing platform for action, since the strategic objective of the 1995 beijing platform for action provides for an indicative framework for the collection and dissemination of data and information, broken down by gender.
in writing. − i support the adoption of this document. however, i would like to draw attention to two aspects of this document. firstly, it is extremely important to ensure that the statistics gathered in all the member states are gathered according to the same criteria and methodology. as the case with the economic statistics in some member states shows, different quality of statistics may result in erroneous actions by the eu institutions. therefore, the need for uniform standards of demographic statistics must be emphasised. secondly, the protection of personal data must be ensured. having different national standards and procedures on personal data protection, we must ensure that demographic data gathered in all the member states does not go beyond what might be considered as the infringement of personal privacy.
in writing. − i agree with the proposal presented, since reliable statistical data require common principles for the production of systematic european demographic statistics throughout the eu in order to ensure data accuracy and consistency. in this context, the collection, processing and transmission of data on population and natural change statistics will be improved. it should be noted that demographic changes have led to significant differences between member states. to obtain a complete picture of the demographic situation in the european union, it is necessary to compare developments not only at national but also at regional level. i believe that the vulnerability index to demographic change is a very useful indicator and needs to be developed at eu level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on ship recycling. under the eu waste shipping regulation, exports of hazardous waste from the eu to countries outside the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) have been prohibited since 1998. any ship carrying various hazardous materials and which is towed out of the eu for dismantling is itself a dangerous vessel. the ships can therefore only be legally dismantled in oecd countries. however, experience shows that very often this legal provision is violated and ships are dismantled outside the oecd, for example in pakistan, india, etc. such non-compliance has negative effects both on the environment and on human health. we in the european parliament are in favour of stricter controls on the export of ships for dismantling. i agree with the rapporteur that a mechanism for the financing of safe ship recycling should be established and that scrapping plans should be drawn up for all ships over 20 years old. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because there is currently fierce and unfair competition between recyclers in the main recycling countries (bangladesh, india and pakistan) and their higher technical standards competitors (eu, turkey and china) and because the current legislation does not take into account the characteristics of ships and it is difficult to determine when ships become waste, which could avoid the legal obligation to deregister ships. during a flood, ships are lowered as close to shore as possible and are usually moored on a muddy shelf near the shore, which the sea floods. they are cut vertically into very large pieces using only a casting lamp and the heavy cut pieces of the ship just fall on the muddy slope. this poses a significant both immediate and chronic risk to workers, there is no proper storage of hazardous substances and some hazardous substances that are removed separately are not handled properly. most shipowners try to make the most profit by selling their vessels to places where there are no labour and environmental standards and therefore they can offer the highest price. in this context, measures must be taken to substantially reduce the negative impact of the recycling of eu-flagged vessels, in particular in south asia, by avoiding unnecessary economic burden.
in writing. − the proper recycling of waste, whatever its form and size, is essential to ensure a high level of environmental protection. i therefore support the measures set out in this document, which are intended to provide both incentives and penalties to ship owners to behave responsibly with ships that are no longer fit for navigation.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. it is essential to ensure that no additional economic burden is created in order to reduce the negative impact of ship recycling. the dismantling of ships under conditions harmful to man and the environment must be prohibited. in order to contribute adequately to waste prevention, the use of hazardous materials on board ships should be limited and safer and greener ship recycling operations should be promoted. in addition, the use of recycled materials in ships and other products should be steadily increased in order to develop the market for recycled materials. it should be noted that the measures envisaged will only achieve their objective if an incentive-based system is in place across the eu to encourage safe and sound ship recycling.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because croatia will join the eu on 1 july 2013 and become the 28th member of the european union, and therefore needs to fulfil the remaining requirements related to the final preparation for eu membership. accession should not be seen as the end of the process but as a step towards economic, administrative and judicial modernisation and as an opportunity that can only be fully exploited through a continuous policy. croatia, in its unique position, has a constructive role to play in its neighbourhood, in particular by promoting further eu enlargement, consolidation of democracy, regional cooperation and reconciliation of the peoples of the western balkans, and it must do its utmost to ensure that bilateral issues do not impede any of these processes. in addition, croatia should pursue further structural reforms to promote economic growth and to revive the labour market, maintain the stability of the banking sector and pursue a policy of fiscal consolidation. the transport infrastructure of croatia and its links with eu member states and countries in the region should also be improved. the croatian authorities should continue to actively combat corruption, fraud and mismanagement of funds and implement the action plan on the reform of the judiciary and improve the implementation of the legal framework relating to the seizure and confiscation of assets.
in writing. - i voted yes. croatia's accession to the eu family is a confirmation of the sustainability and continuity of the eu's enlargement policy. croatia's eu membership will contribute to further consolidating stability and european reform efforts in the balkan region, and its success should provide an incentive for countries with european aspirations in other regions. on 1 july 2013, croatia will finish one distance and start another, qualitatively different one. i am particularly pleased that my country, lithuania, will be the first to take the helm of the eu council and the first to preside over the european union of 28.
in writing. − the eu's enlargement policy is enshrined in articles 49 and 6 of the eu treaty. it is not an end in itself but is based on clear criteria and the aspirant country's commitment and real progress on reforms. the dynamics of turkey's 50 years of european aspirations and the accession negotiations since 2005 have not been the same. however, the latter signs give us optimism and hope that progress will be made in the near future. in some areas, little progress is needed, such as the signing of a readmission agreement that would pave the way for visa liberalisation negotiations. in others, such as the cyprus problem, there is still a lot to be done. without good neighbourly relations and internal reforms in line with european standards, membership is hardly achievable. turkey is not only a candidate country, but also a growing country in many ways, and certainly an important partner for the eu, both in trade and in strategic matters. the eu and turkey benefit from close cooperation and rapprochement. so too is turkey's accession to the eu, if turkey wants to join.
in writing. − serbia, as an eu candidate country with ongoing eu integration, needs to make more efforts in the reform processes. in particular, further progress is needed in the implementation of the principles of democracy and the rule of law. political tensions between the central and provincial governments must be resolved. in order to improve the economic situation in serbia, the cases of unlawful freezing of assets should be examined as quickly as possible and the correct decisions taken. more attention should be paid to the implementation of the impartiality and consistency of the legal system and to the improvement of the public administration system. it should be noted that any country seeking eu membership must meet strict requirements and cannot be granted any exemption. it must provide irrefutable evidence that it has done its homework and made real and irreversible progress on reforms.
in writing. − i believe that kosovo must continue to make every effort to implement reforms with a view to integration into the european union. economic, social, political and diplomatic relations need to be further improved. it should be noted that the pace of integration depends on the progress made in implementing commitments and reforms. kosovo must be fully prepared to engage in constructive and effective dialogue. in particular, strengthening the rule of law must remain a permanent and important objective and a fundamental condition. the public sector needs to be strengthened and substantial reforms are needed to establish an independent and effective judiciary and address existing shortcomings. it is noteworthy that the fight against corruption is not sufficiently addressed. there is a lack of bold and decisive political decisions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the macroeconomic imbalance process (mip) is an important pillar of economic governance in the euro area, designed to prevent and remedy macroeconomic imbalances in member states, with particular attention to macroeconomic imbalances that may have spillover effects in other member states. on 15 december 2011, the european parliament requested that the scoreboard be supplemented by a new indicator relating to the financial sector. the sum of short-term liabilities (liabilities with a maturity of less than one year) on the basis of non-consolidated financial sector statements and net of deposits in banks should be included in the result statement as a share of total liabilities and should be given priority over indicators based on estimates of equity capital flows. unfortunately, the commission did not follow the spirit of cooperation in the mip regulation in updating the macroeconomic imbalance monitoring scoreboard. it should be noted that the necessary changes in the conduct of the commission's services, in particular its directorate-general for economic and financial affairs, have not yet been achieved. parliament's role in economic governance must be recognised and its role as one of the legislative institutions in multilateral surveillance respected.
in writing. − the emu is a policy instrument established by the adoption of a set of six legislative acts and, as an important pillar of economic governance in the euro area, it aims to prevent and remedy macroeconomic imbalances in member states, with particular attention to macroeconomic imbalances that may have spillover effects in other member states. the summary of results under the macroeconomic imbalances prevention (mip) regulation initially comprised ten indicators covering various aspects of surveillance in the context of the mip. in november 2012, the commission added a new indicator to the scoreboard (the growth rate of financial sector liabilities), as announced in its letter to parliament of 19 november 2012. the commission did not cooperate in the spirit of the mff regulation in updating the macroeconomic imbalance monitoring scoreboard and parliament received the relevant report only a few days before the commission published the scoreboard in november 2012. the necessary changes in the commission's conduct of business have not yet been achieved. parliament's role in economic governance must be fully recognised. the commission must clearly respect the role of parliament as one of the legislative institutions in multilateral surveillance and must not discriminate against the council of the european parliament in relation to all union acts in this field. i have endorsed this document because i believe that the commission's consultation of parliament on the amendments to the scoreboard should be part of best practice on mutual respect between the institutions.
in writing. − it is important to note that the commission still does not properly assess the role of the parliament in economic governance and does not properly implement the principle of mutual respect between the institutions. the avoidance of consulting parliament in the update of the summary of the outcome of the surveillance of macroeconomic imbalances is intolerable. in order to assess the level of competitiveness, the commission should provide as soon as possible a report on the monitoring of changes in the productivity of capital and resources. i believe that a lower threshold for the unit labour cost output indicator in the sla is necessary, as the application of labour policies that separate wages from productivity developments has very negative consequences.
mr president, we are well informed that the vietnamese authorities systematically suppress freedom of expression and peaceful assembly and persecute those who question government policies or call for alternatives to the one-party rule. we, of course, condemn the continuing violations of human rights. i urge the vietnamese authorities to immediately and unconditionally release all bloggers and human rights defenders, as well as to amend or repeal legislation that restricts the right to freedom of expression. and of course, the draft decree on internet services should ensure that it protects, rather than violates, the right to freedom of expression online. finally, eu representatives, especially the eu special representative for human rights, should consistently raise these and other concerns in the human rights dialogue meetings in order to achieve concrete progress on human rights and democratisation.
author. − mr president, i have spoken many times about how the situation has deteriorated in kazakhstan. this time i should like to focus on very concrete facts. much to my regret i have to say that the situation is really deteriorating. vladimir kozlov, who was arrested immediately after he visited this parliament, is kept in prison under very degrading conditions. more than that, aliya turusbekova, his wife, is being increasingly threatened and intimidated by the authorities for what is described as ‘subversive activities’. this is, in fact, nothing other than a crackdown – and very brutal one –on freedom of expression and opposition. journalists are being blackmailed and intimidated by the government. for lack of time, i shall not go deeper into detail, but most importantly vladimir kozlov’s health is deteriorating. as a matter of fact, enormous pressure is being put on him, including slander and degrading treatment in prison. that is why time is precious. i am really worried about his health and life and we have to act immediately.
mr president, of course we understand the importance of the relations between the eu and kazakhstan. we know that the kazakh government is considering adopting a new national human rights action plan and that preparatory work in order to reform the criminal code is also going on. at the same time, i have to say that the court decision to ban opposition parties, including the unregistered opposition party alga!, based on charges of extremism, and to ban key independent media players violates the principles of freedom of expression and assembly and deserves our sincere criticism. i would like to take this opportunity to call on the authorities to respect the principles and commitments of the osce standards on the freedom of expression and the freedom of assembly and association and i would like to encourage kazakhstan to view criticism not as a threat but as a constructive tool to improve policies and inclusiveness.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. − commissioner oettinger, colleagues, i would like to thank the european commission for the initiative and the rapporteur ivo belet and the draftsman of the opinion of the legal affairs committee, eva lichtenberger, for the good cooperation. i believe that the agreement on the first reading agreed by mr belet is an acceptable compromise between the commission's initial proposal, the position of the eu member states and the ambitions of parliament. as rapporteur for envi, i wanted to pay even more attention to the environment. however, in the trilogue i saw that the rapporteur was determined to defend parliament's position and in most cases succeeded. this means that offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production will be safer and disaster risk will be reduced. i am sure that the european union will support such a move. the text of the position reflects most of the proposals of the committee on the environment and the socialist and democratic group. in the tripartite negotiations, parliament achieved the maximum degree of independence between the member states' authorities responsible for the safety of offshore oil and gas production and those responsible for the economic development of natural resources. member states will only be able to grant licences for offshore extraction activities after an early and transparent public consultation and an environmental impact assessment. the financial capacity of applicants to cover possible environmental and economic losses in the event of accidents will be taken into account, if provided for by national law. strengthen the mandate of the european maritime safety agency. it will have more powers to monitor oil spills from offshore platforms and help member states respond in the event of a disaster. complaints about safety and environmental breaches in extraction will be dealt with without prejudice to the anonymity of the reporting persons. this is all really important. for the arctic. the council did not agree with envi's recommendation that member states refrain from exploration and exploitation activities in the arctic. as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, i had to come down because the member states of the european union maintain sovereignty in the exploitation of natural resources on their territory. moreover, no eu country has a maritime border that reaches the arctic ocean. however, i would call on the countries of the european union to pursue the highest possible environmental standards, both through the arctic council and through the united nations structures.
the extent of tax evasion by european states today is sufficiently high to suggest that the underlying problem is not the efforts of businesses or individuals to conceal these taxes. it seems that the problem is deeper. perhaps the tax burden has reached an inadequate level? perhaps those taxes are too high, and their tariffs too high? and most importantly, the use of the money collected is inefficient. so i would suggest: 1. try to make paying taxes worthwhile. some should be reduced, others should be abolished, and others should be applied only under certain conditions. 2.taxation must be fair not only must it be fairly redistributed to the needs of states, but tax systems must be adjusted to better promote economic growth and reduce the overall tax burden on low-income persons and the most vulnerable groups. and three, taxes must be unavoidable. we will severely punish companies and corporations that deliberately avoid paying taxes, regardless of their country of origin or their size. let's change the law so that big corporations can't look politicians in the eye and laugh at them.
in writing. madam president, the employment and fair taxation policy should become a priority for the economies of the member states of the european union. this is particularly important in the context of the economic crisis in which the union is currently engaged, which requires additional impetus to stimulate economic growth. this is why we need to improve the tax system to focus more on growth. the restoration of the credibility of budgetary policy thus requires strict adherence to budgetary discipline and the simultaneous launching of structural reforms. raising taxes on wages is not a good idea, as low taxes promote economic growth and employment in the long run. member states should be encouraged to design their tax systems in such a way that taxation is more favourable to people starting an economic activity, especially those who are engaged in it for the first time. the reduction and elimination of tax barriers to cross-border activities should follow, as cross-border activities also have a significant potential for eventual economic growth. reducing the administrative burden, which requires considerable resources in cross-border trade, can also be beneficial. it should be borne in mind that, when advising on changes to existing tax laws, we must be particularly careful, since tax policy is the responsibility of the member states and therefore everything must be done with respect for the tax systems of those countries. more importantly, these changes must not in any way affect the situation of the lowest-earning citizens of the union, who are always the biggest victims of each difficult year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on certain aspects of the eu-sri lanka air services agreement. under bilateral agreements between eu member states and third countries, a third country may refuse to issue and revoke an operating authorisation or a power of attorney to an air carrier designated by a member state but not owned by a member state and not its national. in 2002, the court of justice of the european union ruled that this situation discriminates against eu carriers established in the territory of a member state but owned by nationals of other member states. the commission notes that the sri lankan authorities have not provided any evidence that the air carriers certified in sri lanka are in compliance with the applicable safety standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, as a rule, international relations between member states and third countries in the field of air transport services are governed by bilateral agreements. those bilateral agreements include a designation clause allowing a third state to refuse, revoke or suspend the authorisation or authority of an air carrier designated by a member state but not owned or effectively controlled by that member state or its nationals. in 2002, the court of justice of the european union ruled that this normal condition for appointment was contrary to european union law. it was found that this condition discriminates against community carriers established in the territory of a member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. the normal designation condition replaces the eu designation condition, which allows all eu carriers to exercise the right of establishment and provides for non-discriminatory conditions for the operation of flights between the eu and third countries. in this case, sri lanka has concluded 15 bilateral agreements with individual member states, the relevant provisions of which are to be replaced or supplemented by the provisions of a general agreement concluded on behalf of the union, expressly stating that, in the exercise of its rights, sri lanka will not discriminate against air carriers of member states on the basis of their nationality.
in writing. - i voted yes. in this case, sri lanka has concluded 15 bilateral agreements, the relevant provisions of which are to be replaced or supplemented by the provisions of a general agreement concluded on behalf of the union. in particular, article 2 of the agreement provides for the appointment, issue and withdrawal of authorisations and expressly states that sri lanka will not discriminate in the exercise of its rights against air carriers of member states on the basis of their nationality. article 4 removes possible inconsistencies with the union competition rules. the agreement was signed on 27 september 2012. by decision of 26 november 2012, the council requested parliament to give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement in accordance with the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. rule 81 of parliament's rules of procedure provides that where parliament's consent is required for an international agreement, parliament shall take a decision by a single vote.
in writing. - i am in favour of concluding this agreement. this will provide a strong legal basis to ensure the stable and reliable provision of air services. this agreement will create a level playing field for eu air carriers in the conduct of their activities. all carriers will be able to exercise their right of establishment in an appropriate manner. moreover, the strictly regulated equal assessment of national and foreign entities will prevent not only open discrimination on grounds of nationality or place of residence as regards companies, but also all hidden forms of discrimination. so, what do you think? non-discriminatory conditions for the operation of flights shall be established. fair and equal opportunities will also prevent distortions of competition. this will remove barriers to the provision of services and maintain the attractiveness of the provision of services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the european organisation for the safety of air navigation (eurocontrol), which plays a key role in european air traffic management. the objective of this proposal is an agreement between the eu and eurocontrol, whereby eurocontrol commits to support the european union in the latter's implementation of the common european sky and related eu policies. the agreement shall identify the areas of cooperation and define the modalities and mechanisms of cooperation. i agree with the importance of ensuring synergies with the work of the european aviation safety agency in areas such as safety and environmental issues and the establishment of a joint committee responsible for the administration and application of the agreement. i believe that the agreement will contribute even more to the implementation of the single european sky.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to strengthen and consolidate the cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol in order to enable eurocontrol to support the eu in the implementation of the single european sky (ses) and related policies. eurocontrol is an intergovernmental organisation made up of 39 contracting countries from across europe, including all eu member states except estonia. it plays a key role in european air traffic management. in line with the single european sky legislation, the commission appointed eurocontrol as the performance evaluation body of the cef in 2010 and as the network manager of the air traffic management network functions in 2011. the agreement confirms that eurocontrol is the technical and operational body of the eu for the development and implementation of the single european sky project, lists the areas of cooperation and defines the modalities and mechanisms of cooperation. the agreement also aims to ensure interoperability with the work of the european aviation safety agency in areas such as safety-related air traffic management issues and environmental protection issues.
in writing. - i voted for this document. eurocontrol is an intergovernmental organisation made up of 39 contracting countries from across europe, including all eu member states except estonia. it plays a key role in european air traffic management. the purpose of this agreement is to strengthen and consolidate the cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol in order to enable eurocontrol to support the eu in the implementation of the single european sky (ses) and related eu policies. the main aspects of this agreement are: the confirmation of eurocontrol as the technical and operational eu body for the development and implementation of the bed project; the listing of areas of cooperation and the definition of modalities and mechanisms for cooperation; the aim of ensuring interoperability with the work of the european aviation safety agency (easa) in areas such as safety-related air traffic management issues and environmental protection issues. it is proposed to establish a joint committee responsible for the administration and application of the agreement. the joint committee would be empowered to adopt and amend annexes falling within the scope of the agreement. the agreement was signed on 20 december 2012. it shall apply provisionally. the council's approval of the european parliament is required for the conclusion of the agreement. in accordance with rule 81 of its rules of procedure, parliament shall take a decision by a single vote.
in writing. - i am in favour of concluding this agreement. given the european dimension of eurocontrol's activities and the need for further institutional reforms, more effective and closer cooperation is needed. in addition, this agreement between the eu and the european organisation for the safety of air navigation is also of great importance to the eu, as it is the sole regulator of air traffic management. it should be noted that the technical expertise of eurocontrol will not only contribute to the implementation of the european sky initiative, but will also help improve air traffic management in europe. it will also be another step towards more effective cooperation in civil and military air traffic management.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to amend the provisions of regulation no 354/83 relating to the deposit of the historical archives of the institutions at the european university institute (eui) in florence. this proposal establishes a stronger legal and financial framework for cooperation between the eu and the eui, while strengthening the role of the eui, which will be responsible for the historical archives of the eu institutions. the archives of the institutions of the european union are of great importance for the preservation of historical information, for the public's awareness of the history of the eu and for research on european integration. i agree that it is necessary to make these archives accessible to the public, including by electronic means, including archives which have been digitised and which have been created only in digital format, and to lay down clearly the rules applicable to archives in order to ensure adequate data protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the historical archives of the eu institutions are an important source of information on the history and heritage of the european union. it is therefore essential to make archives accessible to the public in order to make their records available to the public, to preserve information on the eu institutions and to support research into the history of european integration. the proposal for this council regulation, which parliament supported, provides a stronger legal and financial framework for eu-eui cooperation. this regulation does not alter the main aspects of the regulation already in force, such as the definition of historical archives and when and what documents are to be made available to the public. however, the amendments clearly set out the obligation to finance the european university institute through contributions from the depositary institutions of the general budget of the union and specified that the financial contributions would cover the costs of the archives but not the costs of the buildings and storage facilities, which are to be covered by the italian government. the proposed method of sharing costs is based on the criterion that the amount of the financial contribution will be proportional to the size of the staff plans of the depositing institutions concerned.
in writing. - i support the draft regulation submitted by the council. the importance of historical archives is undeniable. it is part of europe's cultural heritage, a source of information on the history and legacy of the eu. the european university institute plays a key role in the storage of the historical archives of the institutions. the institute's sound legal and financial basis for cooperation with the eu is a guarantee of its effectiveness. the preservation and continuous enrichment of the archive requires appropriate financial support. however, a strict financial reporting mechanism must also be established. the appropriations must be used only for the costs of archiving and any waste or misuse of funds must be prevented.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the eighth direct elections to the european parliament by universal suffrage. it is proposed that next year the elections to the european parliament in the countries of the european union will take place from 22 to 25 may instead of june. eu citizens elect their representatives to the european parliament for a five-year term. these direct elections have been held since 1979, when meps were appointed by the national parliaments of the eu member states. the purpose of the early elections is to give newly elected members more time to prepare for the european commission president elections in july.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it supports the council's proposal to change the period within which the next elections to the european parliament should normally be held. this is necessary because in many member states the long easter weekend coincides with the dates that would normally be the date of the elections. the governments of the member states which make up the council expressed the view that the next elections to the european parliament should be held earlier and proposed that the period for holding elections be extended from thursday 22 may 2014 to sunday 25 may 2014. the european parliament supports this proposal from the council.
in writing. − the european parliament plays the role of an assembly of representative democracy in the union. it is therefore essential that elections to the european parliament are organised on reasonable terms. they must be free to vote in secret. conditions must be created to guarantee the freedom of expression of the people. i think it is appropriate to change the election period, as in many member states the long rite weekend coincides with the dates that elections should normally be. attention should be drawn to the fact that failure to change the date of the elections would create many obstacles to the proper implementation of the right to vote in direct universal suffrage. the new proposed election dates will ensure that all citizens have the opportunity to exercise their political rights properly. this will preserve their role and allow them to be more actively involved in eu life.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to assess the application of directive 2004/25/ec on takeovers. in the light of the financial developments and crisis of recent years, it is difficult to assess properly the application of the directive. the crisis has had a very significant impact on the financing of takeovers. merger and acquisition activities generally require financial support, but there is a lack of credit and low share prices make acquisitions less attractive. the application of this directive cannot be properly assessed on the basis of the limited data available. i therefore support the proposals set out to gather more necessary and relevant data to identify not only the need for amendments to the directive but also the specific further harmonisation actions to be taken.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the proposal for a directive on takeovers provides the minimum guidelines to ensure transparency and legal certainty in the execution of takeover bids and to give shareholders, employees and other stakeholders the right to access and disseminate information. given that the transposition of the directive coincided with the onset of the financial crisis, which eventually turned into the economic and debt crisis, it is difficult to determine the extent to which further harmonisation measures should apply to takeovers. however, in order to increase the transparency of the capital market and to strengthen the rights of the acquired companies and of the stakeholders, new measures are needed to regulate takeover bids by related companies. during the impact assessment, the representatives of the employees expressed their dissatisfaction with the situation of workers' rights, and therefore the necessary steps should be taken to address the relevant issues more effectively. it is necessary to ensure that employee representatives are fully involved in consultations before, during and after the takeover phase and enjoy broad rights of access to information. it is important to ensure that all types of workers are provided with transitional support, regardless of their status, type of company or the characteristics of the individual worker.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the takeover directive provides the minimum guidelines to ensure transparency and legal certainty in the execution of takeover bids and to give shareholders, employees and other stakeholders the right to access and disseminate information. the need for harmonised rules on the enforcement of takeover bids was and remains evident in europe. in view of the financial and economic developments of the last few years, it is difficult, if not impossible, to make a proper and definitive assessment of the scope of the directive. the application of the directive cannot be properly assessed on the basis of the limited data available. the committee therefore proposes to collect more relevant data in order to identify not only the need for amendments to the directive but also the specific further harmonisation actions to be taken. it therefore asks the commission to continue to monitor developments in the corporate control market closely and to reassess the application of the directive once takeovers have returned to normal.
in writing. − in the european union, where the free movement of capital is guaranteed, takeovers are a natural, albeit infrequent, part of the business cycle. this process affects many actors, in particular workers. this influence is not always positive. i therefore support this document, which more clearly defines the rights of employees working in the company being acquired, ensuring legal certainty for the employees. in particular, the right to receive information on planned and ongoing legal developments.
in writing. - i support this resolution. europe is still reeling from the capital markets, the economy and the debt crisis. this has undoubtedly had a painful effect on takeover activity. in this context, a detailed study is needed to identify not only the need for amendments to the directive but also the actions to be taken to ensure that the market functions properly and efficiently. it should be noted that the effective implementation of the directive ensures the integration of eu capital markets and greater transparency of liability. to this end, it is essential to ensure that the takeover process is transparent, that the conditions for the acquisition of the apartments are equal and that adequate financial support is provided. all interested parties must be given objective and correct information. moreover, greater attention should be paid to the protection and rights of workers.
in writing. − i voted for this report because european industry still accounts for around 16% of the european union's gdp, despite the fact that the eu's industrial sector has been in decline for the last 50 years. the decline of a large proportion of traditional industries such as coal, steel, textiles or machinery, which for several decades contributed to the prosperity of many regions, is causing problems in many regions of the european union today. many regions of the european union therefore depend on european union funding support for the conversion and restructuring of their old industrial sites. in this context, it is clear that, in the context of the financial and economic crisis, the broad ambitions of the eu's industrial policy and strategy 'europe 2020' cannot be achieved through sectoral policies alone. other aid measures aimed at helping old industrial regions, in particular those with a dominant monopoly, to successfully find new paths of development, with particular attention to the cultural and creative industries, and at encouraging the use of unoccupied land for industrial development activities, which can play a key role in the redevelopment of derelict areas, should also be used. effective policies need to be developed in areas such as cohesion, economic governance, competitiveness, research and innovation, energy, the digital agenda, sustainable development, cultural and creative industries, new skills and employment and others.
in writing. − i am pleased that there is a growing understanding in the european union that most problems can be solved by an integrated approach. the problems of industrial regions also need to be addressed in a way that takes account of social, economic, environmental and historical aspects. on the other hand, the development of strategies should not in itself become an additional bureaucratic and financial burden. the eu strategy for the baltic sea region has already proven that this is possible. i support this document and would like to invite you to follow the good practice of developing the strategy itself.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. cohesion policy must help old industrial regions to emerge from the crisis and become new, modern regions. given the role of industrial regions, only through cohesion and the structural funds can we help these regions to meet all the challenges of maintaining growth. first, the local population must be guaranteed a safe and prosperous future. the appropriate support will help to eliminate the traces of a neglected industry that was particularly pronounced during the economic downturn. more attention should be paid to public-private partnerships, which would not only help to create more added value, but also ensure the proper implementation of the regional strategy for industrial areas.
this document is a step towards a more stringent environmental policy in the european union. it's a shame that this is happening in response to specific accidents, but it's probably better late than never. i strongly support the common position that the monitoring of safety and environmental impact of oil and gas production should be independent and coordinated between member states. this is important to ensure a uniform level of environmental protection throughout the european union. another very important aspect, cooperation with third countries, has been emphasised on several occasions today. pollution has no boundaries. for example, the kaliningrad region, which is very important for the baltic sea region and is surrounded by the countries of the european union, but often cooperation with the russian federation is quite complicated. i would like to mention the d6 oil platform in the baltic sea. we should strive for more effective one-vote speak ing, i.e. involving the european commission. i regret that there are no provisions for the safety of the further transport of gas and oil, not only from extraction and to processing points, but also in terms of infrastructure, i.e. pipelines, ships. mr. ziobro has already mentioned the nord stream pipeline. it would have been very effective to include this provision in this document.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on safety in offshore oil and gas exploration, exploitation and production. in view of the number of accidents on oil rigs and the extent of the damage to the environment, i support the rapporteur's position that the standards for oil and gas extraction should be tightened. i fully support the new safety rules which require companies seeking authorisation to extract these resources to prove their ability to compensate for the damage they may suffer. the use of best practices in the control of major hazards by undertakings active in this field should thereby enhance cooperation and exchange of information between member states. it is also important to ensure that the authorities responsible for the assessment of the safety and environmental risks of operations are independent of the authorities responsible for issuing permits for drilling.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, which aims to introduce stricter rules for offshore oil and gas production. in 2010, an explosion occurred on the deepwater horizon platform, killing 11 people and spilling 4.9 million barrels (780,000 m3) of crude oil. this tragedy has highlighted regulatory shortcomings in this area and the new rules will therefore eliminate the common differences and inconsistencies in member states' practices and legislation in the field of offshore oil and gas operations. it is important that this regulation will extend the mandate of the european maritime safety agency, in particular in the field of emergency preparedness and response. in addition, detailed information on member states' resources and emergency plans will have to be provided to the european maritime safety agency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because major accidents related to offshore oil and gas operations can have devastating and irreversible consequences for the marine and coastal environment and can also have a significant negative impact on the coastal economy. the aim should be to minimise the number and impact of major accidents related to offshore oil and gas operations, thereby increasing protection of the marine environment and the coastal economy from pollution, establishing the conditions necessary for the safe exploration and production of oil and gas at sea and limiting the potential disruption of the local energy production resources of the european union, and improving the emergency response mechanisms. in line with best practice in the european union, the installation's licence holders and/or operators must establish an effective company safety and environmental policy to establish appropriate major accident prevention procedures and to identify in detail and systematically all major hazard scenarios associated with all hazardous activities that may be carried out with the installation, including the environmental impact of a major accident. control and emergency measures are also required, with a comprehensive safety and environmental management system and an emergency plan for the installation.
in writing. − i have endorsed new safety rules for offshore oil and gas production, which require companies seeking permission to extract these resources to prove their ability to compensate for the damage they may suffer. we have adopted higher safety standards for offshore oil and gas production. they aim to reduce the risk of accidents while still effectively addressing their consequences. eu countries will have two years to transpose the new rules into national law. they will set strict minimum safety standards for offshore oil and gas production - from licensing and emergency planning to the final decommissioning of the facility. meps have agreed to strengthen provisions on emergency preparedness, more clear liability for oil and gas companies, risk assessment and better information exchange between eu countries. this directive has already been agreed with the council of the eu, representing the member states, and therefore no obstacles remain to its entry into force. europe's oil and gas resources are mainly extracted from the sea. a major accident at any european offshore installation can cause material losses, damage to the environment, the economy, local communities and society, and can threaten the life and health of workers. the risk of a major accident in union waters needs to be reduced
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production is a complex and environmentally hazardous activity, which must be carried out with environmental safety as a priority. it should be noted that some seas, in particular the enclosed baltic sea, are ecologically sensitive. they must be given special attention. the extraction of thousands of tonnes of black gold must be done in a way that protects the environment. it is very important to properly assess the fact that oil and gas operations in one country can have very serious negative effects on the environment in another country. furthermore, the likelihood of a serious accident occurring during these activities remains too high. in this context, the eu must have very stringent safety requirements and a system in place to ensure that an accident is effectively dealt with and that there is strict liability for damage caused.
i voted for this document. this is a renewable energy issue, an important issue for many reasons, and the report lists them, namely both energy independence (we currently get 50% of our energy from third countries) and energy security, low prices that can be achieved through market liberalisation and competition. however, it is particularly important not only for such general and long-term objectives, but for very specific things, i.e. the 20-20-20 targets. while the number of renewable countries in the european union is growing, the problems we face are also becoming clear. first, i would like to highlight the different national plans and strategies: administrative systems, subsidy systems. this is reflected in this report and would indeed require some form of unified approach. the problem is also the single market and the lack of a proper infrastructure. again, this requires not only political will but also a certain amount of financial resources. the mff document, which parliament rejected, also illustrates parliament's frustration at the lack of funding for research, which is also needed for renewable energy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the current challenges and opportunities for renewable energy in the european energy market. i agree with the rapporteur that the potential for renewable energy supply is not yet fully exploited at european level, that the market for renewable energy is growing and that it is increasingly important in the overall energy context. it is therefore essential to take a structured and forward-looking approach to renewable energy sources. by 2030, targets must be set for the use of energy from renewable sources. each eu country must also aim to achieve a share of at least 30% of the total resource mix from green energy by 2030. i would stress that the use of renewable energy not only combats climate change and increases europe's energy independence, but also provides significant additional environmental benefits through reduced air pollution, waste generation and water use. moreover, the strong growth of the renewable energy sector will not only have a positive impact on european industry, prices and the further development of existing and new technologies, but could also lead to the creation of more than 3 million jobs by 2030.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this important report. the lisbon treaty gives member states the right to define their own energy mix and therefore the mix varies considerably between member states. however, common eu objectives are being set, such as completing the internal market for gas and electricity, increasing the share of renewable energy in the overall eu energy mix, etc. this requires some coordination at eu level. renewable energy sources can be important in the long term in combating climate change and increasing europe's energy independence, but as far as eu energy policy is concerned, i agree that it must be pursued with a constant balance between security of supply, competitiveness, economic efficiency and environmental sustainability. the impact of renewables on the competitiveness of eu industry needs to be properly assessed and i therefore support the call for the commission to carry out a long-term cost-benefit analysis of renewables.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the eu is currently dependent on energy imports, which account for more than half of its final energy consumption. the commission's energy action plan to 2050 concludes that any scenario for the european energy system requires a substantially higher share of energy from renewable sources. in addition, the eu's renewable energy policy has benefited the eu economy and helped create more than 500 000 jobs. however, the supply of renewable energy sources to the transmission grid is decentralised, remote from load centres, weather dependent and variable, and requires an energy infrastructure different from the current one, which has been developed on the basis of conventional energy sources only. it is necessary to create cross-border electricity balancing services markets and to develop european transmission systems as soon as possible in order to improve the cross-border integration of hydropower from storage, in particular in the scandinavian, alpine and pyrenean regions. in addition, the possibility of cooperation mechanisms and trade with third countries should be explored in order to better exploit the potential of renewable energy sources. to this end, the infrastructure needs to ensure the safe and efficient operation of national electricity systems and the costs of the transit countries should be assessed.
in writing. − i supported this proposal to set binding targets for the use of energy from renewable sources by 2030 and to aim for a share of green energy in the total resource mix of at least 30% by then. a secure, reliable, affordable and sustainable supply of energy is essential for the competitiveness of european industry and the economy. almost half of the eu's power plants will need to be replaced over the next decade, and the energy supply system will need to be upgraded and made considerably more flexible to allow for an increase in the share of renewable energy. the share of renewable energy in electricity generation, heating and cooling and transport should be increased in a cost-effective manner, taking into account all the benefits and all the costs associated with renewable energy, including system costs, and without compromising security of energy supply. the increasing competitiveness of renewable energy technologies and the fact that renewable energy resources and clean technology-related industries are important factors for the growth of european competitiveness, with a high potential for creating new jobs and contributing significantly to the development of new industries and export markets, should be recognised.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. renewable energy is becoming more popular and plays a greater role in the energy supply chain. this is a great opportunity to reduce europe's dependence on conventional energy sources and to ensure a secure, reliable, sustainable and affordable energy supply. the implementation of the renewable energy targets would be another major step towards a single internal european energy market and reduce disparities between member states. it should be noted that consumers are currently facing a significant financial burden. this requires a common european strategy to develop both markets and regulatory measures, to ensure fair competition and, ultimately, to significantly reduce prices for end users. the commission should take more active steps to set an eu-wide binding 2030 target for renewable energy sources, following in-depth analyses and impact assessment measures.
in writing. − the renewables sector is growing at 6% per year in the eu. the impact of renewable energy is visible: the use of fossil fuels is reduced, global warming is reduced, new jobs are created. this brings many benefits to eu citizens. the technologies used to produce renewable energy are rapidly improving. the price of this energy has fallen considerably. the calculations show that the most advanced renewable energy plants are able to produce electricity cheaper than new nuclear power plants. the main challenge for the social democrats in this area is, in particular, the strong europeanisation of the development of renewable sources. we call on the eu and its member states to invest in this energy infrastructure - the development of distribution networks and their interconnections. this should grow into a european grid for the distribution of affordable energy. i voted in favour of this report because it also calls on eu countries to provide more security for the private sector investing in renewable energy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the employment rate of women in the western balkans remains very low and they are still underrepresented in the labour market and in economic and political decision-making. in some countries in the region, women entrepreneurs are often discriminated against when they try to secure loans, credit for their businesses, and still often face barriers based on gender stereotypes. in addition, 30% of cross-border trafficking victims in the eu are from the balkans, with women and girls accounting for the majority of these victims. the implementation of women's rights, gender equality as a principle, integration and the ongoing fight against domestic violence must become a priority in the accession process of the western balkan countries, with further addressing, monitoring and reporting on their implementation in progress reports. in relations with public authorities, the importance of women must be constantly emphasised and a good example must be set in ensuring that their delegations, negotiating groups and representation in meetings and the media are proportionate to men and women. specific requirements must be imposed on states to harmonise their laws, policies, budgets and/or institutional arrangements. in order to prevent trafficking in human beings and to protect potential victims, it is necessary to develop information campaigns and take measures to combat corruption and organised crime.
in writing. − the seven countries of the western balkans are aspiring to join the european union and are currently at different stages of convergence with the eu. many have transposed most of the eu gender equality legislation into national law, but they are not yet effectively implemented. better representation of women, who constitute the majority of the population in the western balkans, in political and economic decision-making, gender equality in the labour market, increased measures to educate women about their rights, access to justice for victims of war crimes and protection from violence are essential for the stability and development of the balkan countries.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in the balkan countries that are candidates for eu membership, there is a need to step up the implementation of policies targeting vulnerable groups. some progress in women's rights and non-discrimination is welcome. yet, women are still not able to enjoy the full benefits of the privileges that are offered. they are not given all the rights and responsibilities in the family, in society and in the world. democratic change has not prevented multiple discrimination. thus, full gender equality is not ensured. in view of the current problems, i believe that strategies should be developed and initiatives implemented at cross-border, regional level. the constant struggle for freedom and human rights must not continue any longer, especially in those countries which are seeking eu membership.
in writing. − ensuring women’s rights in the countries that strive to become eu member states is crucial. this report gives a comprehensive assessment of the situation in the western balkans. in this regard, i share the view that raising public awareness of gender equality issues in media and education is essential. i support the need for women in the western balkans to take a prominent role in society through active participation in political, economic and social life. unfortunately, women remain under-represented in the labour market and in political decision-making, therefore i strongly support quotas for female representation, including in political parties and national assemblies. as women’s employment rates in the western balkans remain low, i welcome the introduction of measures aimed at reducing the gender pay and pension gap, as well as at stimulating female entrepreneurship. the issues of violence against women, including domestic violence, as well as trafficking in women, and integration of marginalised members of society, for instance roma women, should be tackled urgently. i voted in favour of this report as i believe it sends a very important message to the aforementioned countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which aims to assess the effectiveness of directive 2010/13/eu on audiovisual media services (avms) and the progress made in transposing this directive into national law. this directive is a key instrument of the internal market ensuring the right to provide audiovisual services, the right to freedom of expression, the right to information and the protection of important public interest objectives. the audiovisual services market is highly competitive internationally. more than 1 500 service providers are based outside the eu but their services are aimed at european markets. these broadcasters are not always subject to the same legal requirements as european broadcasters. i therefore support the european parliament's position that there is a need to monitor more closely the situation in the provision of media services, to promote cultural diversity, to take action to protect minors, to protect consumers, especially children, from excessive advertising, to create a level playing field for broadcasters and to defend freedom of expression and pluralism in the media.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a contribution by the european parliament to the wider debate on the protection of freedom of the press as one of the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the european union. in this report, parliament calls on the member states to ensure that legally binding selection and appointment procedures and procedures for media organisations' heads, boards, media councils and regulatory bodies are applied, which are transparent and take into account proven and undisputed experience. it also stressed that media pluralism and the independence of journalists and editors are pillars of media freedom, as they ensure media diversity, access to a wide range of actors, opinions and perspectives from different social and political spheres and offer a diversity of opinions. this is particularly important in democratic countries, where the media play an important role as the so-called gatekeepers of society, enabling citizens to exercise their right to be informed, to observe and to evaluate the actions and decisions of those who wield or exercise power or influence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because it is necessary to protect the media from interference by the authorities and lobbyists, and the eu must monitor and intervene where necessary in the legislation of the member states regulating media activities. the member states and the european union are required to respect, ensure, protect and promote fundamental freedoms of expression and information, media freedom and pluralism, not to threaten media freedom, such as by attempting to exert undue political influence, to control and censor the media in a biased manner, and to develop and support measures to counter such threats or to restrict or unduly restrict media freedom and independence for personal or political interests, or to financially threaten public service broadcasters.
in writing. − a free and competitive media is one of the safeguards of democracy. the eu must therefore take all measures to ensure this independence. such measures include protection against external threats. unfortunately, online media are increasingly being targeted by cyber-attacks, usually from third parties, initiated in response to criticism. i therefore call for greater eu-wide attention to combating cyberattacks against the media and their freedom.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution tabled. freedom of the media and pluralism can be guaranteed by a rigorous and robust legal and administrative system and high standards of protection. national regulatory authorities shall act independently, impartially and transparently. freedom of expression and information should be respected, protected and promoted. only in positive ways can we properly nurture honest journalism, media pluralism. to achieve these objectives, eu guidelines on media freedom and pluralism should be established at eu level to remove obstacles to the proper implementation of media freedom. only objective information, constructive debate on the most important issues is one of the greatest assets of society. however, media freedom cannot be unlimited, there must be a strict limit on liability and objective criteria for evaluating the media.
in writing. − i have endorsed this important report, which considers the commission's plan to ensure adequate, secure and sustainable pensions. life expectancy in the eu continues to increase, from 76.7 years in 2010 to 78.6 years in 2020 for men and 82.5 years in 2010 to 84 years in 2020 for women, while the eu's fertility rate remains low. in 2008, there was one pensioner for four employees: in 2060, there will be one pensioner for two employees. in its plan, the commission has clearly identified the pension issue and has proposed concrete measures, such as the development of additional private pension funds to which the vn would apply tax and other incentives and the enhancement of the security of such funds. i share the european parliament's position that, in the light of the increasing mobility of eu citizens, it is necessary to ensure adequate safeguards for the maintenance and transfer of pension rights and to that end, to adopt minimum standards for the acquisition and maintenance of accrued pension rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a very important document concerning the legitimate expectations of all citizens of the european union to have a good old age and to receive a normal pension. these expectations can only be met by adapting pension strategies to changing economic and demographic conditions. the number of people aged 60 and over is increasing by about two million a year in the eu. meanwhile, the number of people of working age will decline every year for the next few decades due to low birth rates. rapid economic and productivity growth is also unlikely. we are not immune to economic crises. new policy solutions are therefore needed to ensure that pension systems are sustainable, secure and responsive to people's expectations. the economic and financial crisis has been a serious test for the financial sustainability of pension systems. not all countries have passed this test. we expressed regret that saving at the expense of pensioners has increased their poverty. it is necessary to find other ways to increase the financial sustainability of pension systems. the most important of these are high employment and a good balance between the labour market and retirement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because tax fraud and tax evasion cost the eu an outrageous sum of money - around €1 trillion - each year. this worrying tax gap amounts to about eur 2 000 per year for each eu citizen. the current loss of tax revenue in the eu is equal to the total amount that member states spend on healthcare and is more than four times the amount that the eu spends on education. the current tax gap in europe represents not only a worrying reduction in public revenues, but also a threat to the eu's social model based on quality public services accessible to all. this threatens the proper functioning of the single market and is detrimental to the efficiency and fairness of the eu tax systems. the unrealized revenue continues to push up the deficit and debt levels of member states, all at the crucial moment of the crisis. tax fraud and tax evasion reduce the funds that could be used to promote public investment, economic growth and employment.
in writing. − with the increasing mobility of workers in the european union, the issue of their salary and pension mobility is also becoming relevant. it is therefore essential to resolve the issue of double taxation of pensions as quickly as possible and to remove other obstacles to the movement of pensions after the worker.
in writing. − a decent standard of living and economic independence must be guaranteed to people of retirement age without any reservations. each of us must care not only for today but also for the future. in many member states, social welfare for older people is not guaranteed. furthermore, each country faces different pension system problems, making it difficult to identify a common eu typology. but the eu must remain united in its goal of protecting the right to a peaceful and healthy old age. the proposal to increase the retirement age is unacceptable. this is fundamentally wrong and will have even more negative social consequences. first, responsibility must be promoted. such socially sensitive decisions cannot be rushed without taking into account the level of social welfare in each country. in considering this social issue of vital importance to people, the views of citizens must also be taken into account. i believe that a sound governance framework for the public financial system is the key to achieving adequate, secure and sustainable pensions.
in writing. − the number of older people in the eu is increasing. one third of eu citizens are now over 65. many eu countries have huge budget gaps, making it increasingly difficult for them to bear the burden of pension systems. the retirement age is increasing in the eu. the european parliament calls on eu countries to reform their pension systems to make them even more secure and sustainable. we cannot apply the same standards to all countries, but we must offer more effective and better regulation of pensions for people. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for ensuring that people's lifelong pensions are not collapsed by economic hardship, that the retirement age is not raised constantly, that the level of pensions guarantees a dignified life, that the elderly are allowed to work according to their will and ability.
in writing. at the beginning of this parliamentary term, we set ourselves the great and important goal of creating by the end of the term a much more effective and closer common area of freedom, security and justice in the european union, where our citizens can feel safe and their rights protected, no matter where they live in the eu. the european protection order was the first important step towards making protection measures imposed by a competent authority in one country in criminal proceedings almost automatically binding in all countries of the european union. today, in the plenary, we will vote in favour of a similar document which will allow citizens in europe to have access to the protection measures they are entitled to, irrespective of whether the specific act which threatens them is considered a criminal offence in the host country to which the person using the protection measures arrives. this is a necessary measure to protect individuals from the threat of physical or psychological violence and to prevent them from being victimized by the different legal systems in the member states. the objective of this regulation is to establish a system whereby victims of crime or persons facing a real risk of becoming victims of crime can benefit from the protection measures available to them without unnecessary administrative burden.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens, as the european union loses around eur 1 trillion a year due to tax fraud, tax avoidance and evasion, which is seven times the eu's annual budget. i agree with the rapporteurs that this is a serious, multifaceted problem requiring coordinated policy at national, eu and international levels. in my view, given the current economic situation, it is very important to recover at least part of the money lost. the main objective should therefore be to halve the tax gap by 2020. in addition, in order to prevent tax evasion, the principle of banking secrecy and the legal loopholes in tax collection must be removed, taxpayers' identity must be improved and tax havens must be curbed. i stress that eu leaders must do more to tackle the problem of tax avoidance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. the eu loses around €1 trillion every year to tax fraud and tax evasion, or €2,000 for every eu citizen. in recent years, eu countries have had to improve tax collection and abolish tax incentives, but experience has shown that large companies in member states simply move to another member state because of tax incentives. i support the commission's action plan and recommendations to member states to take urgent action against tax havens. i support calls for member states to harmonise the tax base, agree on a 'tax haven' deadline, draw up a common blacklist of such territories and prevent companies from shifting their profits to them. the commission should not allocate funding to undertakings that breach tax standards and should ensure that member states do not allow such undertakings to participate in cross-border procurement. i agree with the need to expand the tax base already in place, rather than raising tax rates or introducing new taxes. action is needed to suspend banking authorisations of financial institutions where they are found to be contributing to tax fraud by offering products or services that can be used by clients to evade taxes. member states should empower the commission to negotiate tax agreements with third countries on behalf of the eu and to encourage the eu to take a leading role in global forums on tax fraud and tax havens.
in writing. - i voted for this report because tax fraud and tax evasion cost the eu an outrageous sum of money - approximately eur 1 trillion - each year. the current loss of tax revenue in the eu is equal to the total amount that member states spend on healthcare and is more than four times the amount that the eu spends on education. a strategy based on concrete legislative actions to close the eu tax gap needs to be developed. member states should allocate sufficient resources to their national tax administrators and tax auditors, and should revoke banking authorisations for financial institutions that actively contribute to tax fraud by offering products and/or services that can be used by clients to avoid taxes, or refuse to cooperate with tax authorities. the scope of the savings income tax directive should also be extended to effectively remove the principle of bank secrecy. action is also needed to improve taxpayer identification, taxation of electronic commerce, the efficiency of tax collection mechanisms, the transparency of business registers and mutual fund registers, as well as to improve the effectiveness of the code of conduct on business taxation and to develop a new code of conduct for auditors and consultants. the establishment of a european union blacklist should suspend or terminate existing double taxation treaties.
in writing. − with many eu countries facing budget deficits due to uncollected taxes, effective control of so-called tax havens, even those within the eu itself, is becoming a real concern. in support of this document, i would like to point out that one of the necessary steps is to establish appropriate cooperation with third countries whose entities, by taking advantage of tax incentives in the eu countries themselves, often legalize the proceeds of crime in this way.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. tax fraud and tax evasion is a serious, multifaceted problem requiring coordinated policies at national, eu and international levels. cross-border tax fraud and tax evasion are now widespread. effective and progressive taxation is essential for public authorities to fulfil their obligations and to meet the needs and expectations of citizens. the reform of the tax system and its efficiency is a matter of particular importance for society as a whole. tax systems need to be adjusted to better stimulate economic growth and reduce the overall tax burden on low-income earners and the most vulnerable groups. i call for strict punishment of companies and corporations that deliberately avoid paying taxes, regardless of their country of origin and their size. let's change the law so that big corporations can't laugh in your face.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because of the potential for growth in the eu economy. the eu loses around €1 trillion every year to tax fraud and evasion, or €2,000 for every eu citizen. in recent times, eu countries have had to improve tax collection and abolish tax incentives, but experience has shown that large companies in member states simply move to other member states because of tax incentives. i support the commission's action plan and recommendations to member states to take urgent action against tax havens. i support calls for member states to harmonise the tax base, agree on a 'tax haven' deadline, draw up a common blacklist of such territories and prevent companies from shifting their profits to them. the commission should not allocate funding to undertakings that breach tax standards and should ensure that member states do not allow such undertakings to participate in cross-border procurement. i agree with the need to expand the tax base already in place, rather than raising tax rates or introducing new taxes. action is needed to suspend banking authorisations of financial institutions where they are found to be contributing to tax fraud by offering products or services that can be used by clients to evade taxes. member states should empower the commission to negotiate tax agreements with third countries on behalf of the eu and to encourage the eu to take a leading role in global forums on tax fraud and tax havens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the eu economies - in many cases due to the current policy mix with little focus on investment, competitiveness, employment and fair and effective taxation - will have little or no growth prospects in terms of economic growth and employment in the near future. the crisis, which has exposed structural weaknesses in some eu member states and continues to damage the eu's growth potential, has put member states in a difficult position to balance budgets while promoting growth and job creation. a so-called advanced, coordinated and flexible tax snake system should be established, under which the tax systems of all member states are not coordinated but only coordinated in such a way as to take account of the reduced or increased taxes applied in the national systems. the restoration of fiscal credibility and the reduction of public debt require the maintenance of fiscal discipline and the implementation of structural reforms, with a focus on growth-oriented fiscal measures and taxes geared to consumption rather than to work. tax policy should stimulate the economy, inter alia, by creating tax structures that stimulate aggregate demand in the long term, facilitate export-oriented activities and create jobs and promote sustainable development.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the recent debt crisis has created a number of new difficulties in the european union and requires a proper adjustment of tax policies in the short, medium and long term. some countries have already adapted their policies, while others are yet to do so. it is necessary to emphasise that tax policy remains a national competence and that the different tax systems of the member states must therefore be respected and that the obstacles, uncertainties and disagreements in the internal market arising from legal loopholes should be eliminated as soon as possible. it is stressed that fiscal discipline and structural reforms will be indispensable to restore the credibility of fiscal policy and reduce public debt, while giving priority to growth-oriented fiscal measures and promoting taxes that are more focused on consumption than on employment, as they are more conducive to growth and employment in the long term. double taxation and tax evasion remain a major problem in the european union, with considerable budgetary losses, and several final paragraphs, drawing attention to the need to address these problems urgently, in line with the commission's action plan published at the end of last year.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the tax evasion that european countries are not currently facing is quite high. the tax burden has reached an inadequate level. there are too many taxes and their tariffs are too high. it is essential to ensure that tax systems are growth-friendly. we need to do more to create a simple, understandable and fair tax system. it should be beneficial to pay taxes. some should be reduced, others eliminated, and still others applied only under certain conditions. in addition, an eu strategy to close the tax gap needs to be adopted and implemented as a matter of urgency. the taxation of persons with higher incomes should be increased, whether it is a salary or a tax on interest or profits for legal persons.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european council's request not to convene a convention to deal with the question of the accession of the czech republic to protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom to the treaty on european union. eu conventions are normally convened to address key issues relating to the constitutional order of the union, including the adoption of the eu charter of fundamental rights. the european council proposes not to convene a convention on the accession of the czech republic to the said protocol, as the eu-wide impact of this issue would be limited or non-existent.
in writing. - i voted for this decision. i support the proposal not to convene the convention on the protocol supplementing the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to the czech republic. it should be noted that the rights, freedoms and principles set out in the charter of human rights of the european union have the same legal value and binding force as the treaties. this charter does not restrict the scope of national law or limit the powers of national authorities. i believe that the solution presented is the right one and that it meets the requirements of the most democratic and efficient decision-making systems in the eu. furthermore, the integrity of the czech legal order is guaranteed. it is neither appropriate nor necessary to convene a convention in order to approve amendments to certain provisions and to add a protocol on the application of the charter to the czech republic.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the european parliament's position on the czech republic's request to apply to it protocol no 30 to the treaty on european union, which confers a derogation on a member state from the application of the european charter of fundamental rights. the treaty of lisbon, signed by all the member states of the european union in 2009, recognised that the rights, freedoms and principles set out in the charter have the same legal value and binding force as the eu treaties, but the provisions of the charter do not in any way extend the eu's competence, but only aim to give greater emphasis to fundamental rights and to ensure their visibility. for this reason, the european parliament has always been sceptical of the former czech president's request to grant his country a derogation from the charter of fundamental rights. however, at the time of the signature of the treaty of lisbon, the president of the czech republic was promised that this provision would apply to his state in the future, and the european parliament therefore decided not to prevent the further ratification of the said protocol in that member state, provided that the ratification process would be initiated by the approval of both chambers of the czech parliament for the accession of that member state to protocol no 30.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. in view of the position expressed by the czech republic and in the light of the legal application of the treaty of lisbon, i support the proposal to extend the protocol to the czech republic. attention should be paid to the fact that the application of the protocol will not have adverse consequences for the maintenance of a high and uniform level of protection of rights throughout the eu. the high standards of protection of fundamental rights and freedoms will continue to apply to czech citizens, as the czech republic will not be exempted from the application of the binding provisions of the charter. another important aspect is that the charter has no effect on the validity of the beneš decrees on expropriation after the second world war.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters. the aim of the proposal is to ensure uniform protection for victims of crime throughout the european union and to establish minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. i agree that it is necessary to simplify the recognition of protection orders so that a person who has been granted protection in one member state does not lose it on leaving for another. to this end, it is necessary to develop a standardised multilingual certificate, thus simplifying administrative procedures. it is important that protected persons receive all necessary information and assistance in an easily understandable manner and in a language they can understand. when organising education and information campaigns for the protection of victims, member states should include information on the free movement of protective equipment and the common certificate. i support calls on the commission to publish relevant information on safeguard measures in member states on the european e-justice portal.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is a further step towards a more effective and more coherent common area of freedom, security and justice in the european union. the european protection order was the first important step towards making protection measures imposed by a competent authority in one country in criminal proceedings almost automatically binding in all countries of the european union. this document will enable citizens in europe to have access to the protection measures they are entitled to, regardless of whether the specific act that threatens them is considered a criminal offence in the particular host country to which the person using the protection measures arrives. this is a necessary measure to protect individuals from the threat of physical or psychological violence and to prevent them from being victimized by the different legal systems in the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal as it seeks to establish rules for a mechanism for the simple and rapid recognition of protection measures granted in a member state in civil matters. it is essential to ensure that a person who has been granted protection in one member state does not lose it when he moves to another member state. a mechanism should therefore be established to eliminate the intermediate formalities involved in the use of a standardised multilingual certificate. this would ensure not only the rapid and simple recognition of safeguard measures but also their enforcement. this mechanism would also allow victims to benefit from a simplified administrative procedure and ensure that they are protected at all times when travelling or moving to another member state. member states are also encouraged to ensure that protected persons do not incur the financial costs associated with the recognition of a protection measure in another member state.
in writing. - i agree with the text on which parliament and the council have reached agreement. in an eu where free movement of persons is guaranteed, the rights of individuals must also be guaranteed and protected. as eu citizens travel increasingly to other member states, this defence needs to be as simple and clear as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this position. no one is immune to crime. only action at eu level can strengthen the rights of victims of crime and prevent harm and violence. this is a transnational and national problem that requires urgent action. in this context, it is necessary to provide for directly binding and operationalized legal measures. confidence in the justice system must be strengthened. victims shall be afforded the widest possible protection. a simplified, rapid and effective system for the recognition of protection measures must be in place in the eu. citizens should be able to rely on the same minimum rules when travelling or living abroad and should not be subject to financial costs or bureaucratic obstacles.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for an agreement on customs cooperation between the european union and canada. the new agreement aims to strengthen the protection of customs-related international trade logistics (including container protection) while facilitating legitimate trade. the customs relations between the european union and canada are based on the 1998 agreement. the new agreement strengthens eu-canada customs cooperation in the areas of risk standards, security checks, information and data exchange, partnership in cargo control, and participation in multilateral fora such as the world customs organization. i think it is important that this agreement is administered by a joint eu-canada customs cooperation committee, which could take decisions on the implementation of the agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it aims to further develop closer eu-canada cooperation in the field of supply chain security and risk management. the aim of this new agreement is to enhance the improvement of customs-related aspects of the security of the international trade logistics chain (including container security), while facilitating legitimate trade. the agreement provides the basis for enhanced eu-canada customs cooperation in areas such as risk standards, security checks, minimum standards for risk management techniques, exchange of information and data, strategic partnership on cargo screening, and participation in multilateral fora. the agreement does not affect the budget of the union and its conclusion requires the consent of the european parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the new agreement aims to strengthen the improvement of customs-related aspects of the security of the international trade logistics chain (including container security), while facilitating legitimate trade. the agreement provides the legal basis for enhanced eu-canada customs cooperation in areas such as risk standards, security checks, minimum standards for risk management techniques, exchange of information and data, strategic partnership on cargo screening, as well as participation in multilateral fora such as the world customs organization. it also opens the door to mutual recognition of agreements on customs security measures, including the mutual recognition of relevant trade partnership programmes with equivalent trade facilitation measures, i.e. the european union authorised economic operator and canada's 'partners in protection' programmes. the european union delegated economic operators programme has been a cornerstone of the eu's supply chain security policy since 2008, allowing customs to focus limited resources on high-risk cargo. more than 10 000 european companies have already been certified as safe traders. the eu has already negotiated and agreed on the mutual recognition of authorised economic operators with japan and the usa. the eu-canada supply chain security agreement will allow for the negotiation of a similar agreement with canada.
in writing. − i support the conclusion of an eu-canada agreement on customs cooperation in the field of supply chain security. international cooperation is a guarantee of security in the supply chain. the eu is a key player in the logistics of the global trade and supply chain. closer customs cooperation between these countries will prevent illicit trade and contribute to the promotion of economic and social well-being. in addition, the economic and bureaucratic burden on institutions and traders will be removed. only effective customs cooperation and mutual assistance will adequately protect the economic and financial interests of both parties and ensure effective risk management of the movement of goods in the international supply chain.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is another necessary step towards the creation of a real european banking union in the euro area. the european banking union is necessary to restore confidence in banks and the euro. a common supervisory mechanism for direct supervision of banks should be a key element of the banking union, in order to ensure strict and impartial enforcement of prudential rules and effective supervision of cross-border banking markets. in the negotiations on this regulation on the european banking authority, the european parliament increased the transparency and accountability requirements, while also increasing the powers of the european banking authority.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. the european banking union is a guarantor of the stability of the financial system. only through it will we be able to restore confidence in the sector and promote the credibility of credit institutions. it is worth noting that the divergent regulatory rules in the banking sector prevent the successful management of the negative consequences of the financial crisis. in order to remove these obstacles, supranational supervision of banks needs to be implemented across the eu. the european central bank shall ensure the proper implementation of the single supervisory mechanism. the single supervisory mechanism must operate in accordance with a specific action plan drawn up in advance. the european banking authority plays a crucial role in ensuring the integrity of the single financial market. in view of this and the functions it performs, the authority should be provided with sufficient financial and human resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is another necessary step towards the creation of a real european banking union in the euro area by establishing a so-called single supervisory mechanism. this council regulation establishes the european central bank as the lead institution of the single supervisory mechanism and confers on it exclusive competence to exercise prudential supervision of credit institutions. the regulation provides that the ecb carries out supervision through the national authorities, but may, where appropriate, introduce direct supervision of a credit institution and issue binding instructions to the national responsible authorities. this regulation establishes that the ecb's banking supervisory board, acting as a single contact point for all supervised credit institutions, is accountable to the european parliament. the european banking union is necessary to restore confidence in banks and the euro.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. it is worth noting that there is a continuous threat to financial markets. financial systems cannot be stable unless the safety and soundness of credit institutions is ensured. in this context, i support the proposal to entrust the european central bank with prudential supervision of credit institutions. this will stop the fragmentation of financial markets and remove inappropriate links between banks and the public authorities. i believe that financial institutions should adopt business models that are more in the interest of the eu's citizens than shareholders. independent common supervision of all participating member states will restore confidence in the banking sector and revive interbank lending and cross-border credit flows. i support the possibility for non-euro area member states to participate in the implementation of the single supervisory mechanism. this will help to achieve a more integrated fiscal and economic system and progress towards a common resolution mechanism.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the making available on the market of pyrotechnic articles. the proposal aims to reduce the presence of non-compliant and unsafe pyrotechnic articles on the eu market. the directive lays down the essential safety requirements to be met by pyrotechnic articles in order to be supplied in the european union. manufacturers shall demonstrate that the pyrotechnic article has been designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential safety requirements, provide a declaration of conformity and affix the ce marking. i support the proposals to reduce the bureaucratic burden as much as possible and to modernise the current procedures, while allowing the european union declaration of conformity to be submitted not only in paper form but also electronically. i support the proposals to the commission to publish information on the national provisions of this directive and the relevant penalties on the internet, and to ensure that the instructions, safety information and labelling of pyrotechnic articles are clearer and more understandable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it sets out the european parliament's position on the amending directive on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market in the european union. this directive was adopted to eliminate shortcomings in the existing union harmonisation legislation in order to complete the single market, ensure fair competition and product safety. the inconsistent implementation and enforcement of existing union provisions in the member states and the complexity of regulation have recently made it increasingly difficult for economic operators and public authorities to interpret and apply legislation correctly, leading to uneven market conditions and unsafe products being placed on the market. the harmonisation and updating of technical requirements for pyrotechnic articles will ensure safety for consumers in the european union, while ensuring the smooth functioning of the single market and promoting competitiveness.
in writing. - thousands of people, many of them children, are affected by pyrotechnic products during the festive season each year. i am in favour of tightening the directive on the placing of pyrotechnic articles on the market. i would point out, however, that the majority of the pyrotechnics that harm people come from third countries. therefore, while tightening the rules, we must also ensure that there is adequate control of imports of pyrotechnic articles from third countries.
in writing. − pyrotechnic articles must be subject to very strict safety requirements and a high level of product market surveillance. it should be noted that pyrotechnic articles are dangerous not only for the user but also for the people around him. it is very important to ensure that counterfeit products do not enter the market. it is necessary to prohibit the placing on the market of dangerous or non-compliant products. in order to strengthen consumer confidence in the single market, it is necessary to strengthen consumer protection and to ensure greater legal certainty and clarity. it should be noted that the free movement of goods is hampered by a high bureaucratic burden. in this context, it is necessary to simplify and modernise the procedures applied and to remove the current barriers to trade.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the application of the audiovisual media services directive. broadcasters need to focus more on analysing the needs of people with hearing or visual impairments and adapting technologies to ensure greater accessibility of all programmes to these groups (audio description, subtitling, use of sign language, etc.). we in the european parliament believe that special attention should be paid to the protection of minors in the audiovisual media. minors are the most vulnerable group to commercial messages such as those about alcoholic beverages, unhealthy products, products that promote harmful consumption habits. the reinforcement of national provisions to protect minors is therefore welcome.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal to revise the european union's audiovisual media services directive. the proposal aims to set minimum standards for the fundamental rights to freedom of expression, information and the media. it is important to establish measures to protect media pluralism and to avoid excessive media concentration. the directive should aim to promote cultural diversity, to broadcast more european works, to support works created by independent creators, while protecting consumers, including children, from inappropriate audiovisual messages or excessive advertising. it is necessary to require media representatives to provide the relevant information to the responsible national authorities and the public about their owners and ultimate beneficiaries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it aims to assess the effectiveness of directive 2010/13/eu on audiovisual media services and the progress made in transposing this directive into national law. this directive is the cornerstone of media regulation in the european union. the audiovisual media framework directive (avfd) is an internal market instrument that combines the right to provide audiovisual services, the right to freedom of expression, the right to information and the protection of important public interest objectives. this directive focuses on accessibility of audiovisual works, the promotion of european works, the protection of minors. the directive enshrines freedom and pluralism of the media, the right to information and the country of origin principle, as well as the prohibition of incitement to hatred.
in writing. − in support of this document, i would like to draw the attention of colleagues to the fact that one of the challenges that has received too little attention is the security of interactive media and protection against cyber attacks. the increasing number of such attacks shows the seriousness of this threat, which must be taken into account by the eu institutions, the member states and the media themselves.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. the audiovisual media services directive plays an important role in preserving cultural diversity, media pluralism and consumer protection. it should be noted that the extent to which this directive has been implemented varies widely across the eu. although the majority of member states have successfully implemented this directive, there have been significant delays in transposing the directive into national law. the failure to deliver on time is not only damaging to media regulation but also to confidence in the single market. progress in the implementation of the audiovisual media services directive ensures the competitiveness and sustainable financing of audiovisual media services. strong consumer protection standards should be maintained throughout the eu and the lack of controls on retransmission should be addressed. i believe that more attention should be paid to the protection of minors by introducing new and strong regulatory measures.
madam president, the eu has frozen the assets of 67 people suspected of concealing abroad state funds misappropriated in egypt and tunisia. now the governments in libya, egypt and tunisia are struggling with economic hardship and it is high time for the eu and its member states to make further significant efforts to facilitate the return of misappropriated assets, stolen by the former regimes, to the people of arab spring countries without delay. in the arab spring countries the challenges are numerous and expectations are high. therefore, the return of stolen assets to the countries in transition is important beyond its economic significance. it is a moral and legal imperative and a highly political issue, as those assets, if used properly, could help to reconstruct the societies of arab spring countries, firstly by funding government programmes and initiatives to help the people, secondly by providing justice for victims and challenging a political culture of impunity, and thirdly by deterring officials from engaging in corruption in the future. lastly, cooperation by the eu and its member states would demonstrate the eu’s political commitment and credibility and, moreover, would strengthen much-needed mutual confidence, in a spirit of partnership with societies, which is a cornerstone of the revised european neighbourhood policy.
on behalf of the s&d group i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, horst schnellhardt, and the other colleagues who worked so hard to reach a good agreement on the first reading on a subject that concerns many millions of citizens of the european union. we've heard the figures here that a quarter of the population of the european union has a pet, and i think many of them, and others, are convinced that they are our little friends. the rapporteur's professional experience was particularly useful in the trialogue negotiations. the position of the parliament was not only represented convincingly by a politician but also by an experienced specialist in the field. i think that the document we are going to vote on today has become more understandable to the citizens of the european union in the debate. and that is important. the coordinated position of the three eu institutions will facilitate the travel of pets and their owners within the european union, and also when moving to third countries. this will not be at the expense of public health, but also animal health. the draft law will provide for strict requirements to prevent the spread of infectious diseases. i would say that this document is important for all of europe, but especially for the new eu countries. i support the rapporteur's proposal to allow, in exceptional cases, the transport of more than 5 animals to sporting events and exhibitions. however, the exemption will only apply to animals from 6 months of age. this will prevent abuse of this amendment in cases of illegal trade in young puppies. member states will have to publish on the internet the rules governing the non-commercial introduction of pet animals into their territory. at the request of parliament, the commission agreed to publish this information on its website, translated into the main eu languages. unfortunately, parliament has failed to convince the council and the commission to include in this draft law the requirement to establish a european-level database on pet animals. such databases have already been established in some eu countries and their experience could be extended at european level. however, the commission has also assured, in a written statement, that a study will be carried out to assess whether it is appropriate to set up such a database. i join the call to do so as soon as possible and to report the findings to parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the introduction of the customs code. the modernised customs code regulation aims to adapt customs legislation to the electronic customs and trade environment. the aim is to reform the customs rules in a fundamental way, with a view to simplifying them and improving their structure. the regulation is to apply from 24 june 2013, but it is proposed to replace it with a new one before the envisaged date of application in order to bring it into line with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. i am in favour of postponing the date of application of the regulation in order to bring it into line with the treaty of lisbon and to give administrations and economic operators sufficient time to make the necessary investments and to ensure that the mandatory electronic processes are gradually put into practice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the renewal of the access of myanmar/burma to the common tariff preferences. the purpose of the proposal is to re-establish the benefit of the common preferential tariff for myanmar. since 1971, the eu has provided a 'general system of preferential customs tariffs' (gst) for developing countries. in 1997, myanmar was provisionally excluded from the gsp tariff because of the prevalence and widespread use of forced labour in the country. since 2011, myanmar has made significant efforts to reform, including in the area of forced labour, and the commission therefore proposes to reinstate preferential tariffs under the existing gsp regulation. i think that although some progress has been made, forced labour in myanmar has not been completely abolished. i support the calls on the commission to continue to monitor developments in relation to forced labour in myanmar. i believe that the eu should ensure that european trade and investment in this country is driven by the highest standards of corporate social responsibility.
in writing. − it is welcome that the myanmar government has managed to find a compromise on the abolition of all forms of forced labour. this is a major boost to the effective implementation of reforms to abolish forced labour. in the light of the report submitted by the commission, i consider it appropriate to renew the preferences for myanmar. however, there is a need for continuous monitoring and strict control measures, as forced labour has not yet been completely abolished. moreover, the scale of human rights violations is high, impunity has not been lifted and measures to prevent these violations have not been properly implemented. the government of myanmar must take action to prevent economic disadvantage and all forms of discrimination.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. foreign direct investment is part of the union's common commercial policy. in this context, the eu needs to establish a comprehensive legal framework for the allocation of financial responsibility between investors and the state. i agree with the position in the draft regulation that the financial responsibility arising should be borne by the body which established the regulation at issue. however, it should be noted that such a mechanism for allocating responsibility cannot have any impact on the union budget and cannot infringe the principles of sincere cooperation and other principles governing foreign actions. in addition, the third-country investor should not be placed under an additional burden when financial liability issues are dealt with within the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal on the non-commercial movement of pet animals. the objective of the proposal is to facilitate animal owners' travel with their pets within the union or to third countries, while ensuring a high level of safety, taking into account possible risks to public or animal health. dogs and cats transported for commercial purposes are often transported clandestinely as if for non-commercial purposes in order to avoid the application of stricter rules on the trade and import of such animals. the proposal provides for the format of the relevant animal identification document, taking into account the animal species and the nature of the non-commercial movement (travel between eu member states or entry from third countries), as well as any relevant entries to be made by the veterinarian. it is important that the commission proposal is clearer, so that animal owners, veterinarians, the staff involved and the competent authorities are clear on how to apply it and so that no misunderstandings arise.
in writing. − the possibility for eu citizens to move between member states with their pets one of the elements of the free movement of persons. i therefore support the reduction of obstacles to such movements, while ensuring that animal safety requirements are also met.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. the proper implementation of the provisions of this regulation will not only facilitate animal owners' travel with their pets, but will also allow the risk of disease spread to be adequately controlled and illegal trade to be prevented. first, a high level of security must be ensured. strict, clear and generally understandable rules must apply. animal owners shall not create unjustified obstacles to the movement of animals. however, it is essential to ensure that animals introduced from third countries do not pose a risk to human and animal health in the eu territory. in view of this, a strict control system must be applied in the eu. increased protection of identification documents is needed. pet health certification shall be carried out in a lawful and correct manner.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on animal health requirements for the trade in dogs, cats and ferrets. the purpose of the proposal is to facilitate animal owners' travel with their pets within the union or to third countries, while ensuring a high level of safety, taking into account possible risks to public or animal health. dogs and cats transported for commercial purposes are often transported clandestinely as if for non-commercial purposes in order to avoid the application of stricter rules on the trade and import of such animals. the proposal provides for the format of the relevant animal identification document, taking into account the animal species and the nature of the non-commercial movement (travel between eu member states or entry from third countries), as well as any relevant entries to be made by the veterinarian. it is important that the commission proposal is clearer, so that animal owners, veterinarians, the staff involved and the competent authorities are clear on how to apply it and so that no misunderstandings arise.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. continuous progress is needed in the area of animal welfare. we must ensure better protection and respect for animals. it is essential to provide for an adequate and scientifically justified period during which the animals are to be clinically examined by a veterinarian authorised by the competent authority before they are transported. in view of the risks posed by imports of dogs, cats and ferrets into the eu, an effective control and surveillance mechanism should be put in place. legislation must be consistent and simplified, without imposing additional administrative or financial burdens on animal owners. a common health certificate should be applied at eu level and misleading or unfair certification should be prevented.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a legislative act on economic and monetary union. the purpose of the proposal is to help member states to prepare, decide and implement reforms for growth, competitiveness and jobs. the commission's convergence and competitiveness instrument aims to oblige member states to undertake concrete reforms, with financial support. i believe that reforms should focus on employment, the functioning of goods and services markets, network industries, tax systems, financial stability and fiscal sustainability. agreements with member states must specify the main measures which the member state undertakes to implement within an agreed time-limit. i agree with the call on the commission to analyse how the agreement could be extended to non-euro area member states, and in particular those preparing to adopt the euro. i support calls for the publicity of reform plans and the promotion of social dialogue on these issues. the new spc measure must apply to all euro area member states and be open to all other eu member states. i believe that the reform plans must be drawn up by the member states with the appropriate involvement of the national parliaments, in accordance with their internal constitutional procedures, and in cooperation with the commission.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it is important that all major economic policy reforms that states are planning to implement are discussed ex ante among themselves, with the involvement of the european union institutions, as required by european union law. the ex ante coordination mechanisms established should be applicable to all euro area member states and open to all member states of the union, while taking into account the increased interdependence of the euro area member states. europe's fiscal capacity should be further developed and structural reforms for sustainable growth should be implemented in a timely manner, supporting the principle that action to promote greater accountability and economic discipline should be combined with greater solidarity and greater integration of decision-making in policy areas such as taxation and labour markets. the introduction of a reform-supporting incentive mechanism would help to mitigate the short-term negative effects of structural reforms, in particular social and political difficulties, and to ensure that those effects are more acceptable to citizens. in this process, it is important to guarantee the effective independence of the european statistical system at both national and european union levels.
in writing. − the eu's governance must respect the prerogatives of the european parliament and national parliaments. the right of citizens to express their will is absolute and cannot be withheld or restricted. they alone have the sovereign right to decide on economic policy. economic policy coordination must be carried out through increased solidarity. only national parliaments and the european parliament can ensure democratic decisions on economic policy reforms. attention should be drawn to the fact that the reforms undertaken must be geared to the overall objective of achieving effective economic and social cohesion. in this context, the budget should be strengthened by a proportionate increase in contributions to those countries with higher gross national income. it is also essential that the redistributive function fosters convergence driven by social progress.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion on the situation of syrian refugees in neighbouring countries. as the armed conflict in syria continues and the humanitarian situation deteriorates, the number of refugees and people in need of assistance is increasing rapidly. in total, 1 523 626 syrian refugees have already been registered in neighbouring countries, but the total number of refugees could be much higher. i support calls on the commission to ensure that the eu takes a leading role in preventing the spread of the armed conflict in syria to neighbouring countries. i support calls for the commission to provide a comprehensive aid package to tackle the humanitarian crisis in syria and neighbouring countries. it is necessary to provide for increased humanitarian assistance, including support to refugee-hosting countries, to help strengthen local communities and infrastructure.
in writing. − the syrian regime's continued violence against civilians is having a negative impact on a much wider region. one is the flow of refugees to neighbouring countries and north africa. the un estimates that there are over one and a half million registered, but the number is likely to be much higher. the eight host countries have welcomed the opening of their borders and the acceptance of refugees, but they face enormous financial, economic and often political challenges as a result, and refugees are in need of humanitarian assistance and protection. parliament therefore stresses the need to ensure the protection of refugees as provided for in international law, calls on the european commission to draw up a model aid package, on the eu member states to honour their pledges to donate, and on the eu as a whole to prepare responsible measures to deal with the possible flow of refugees into its member states.
in writing. - i believe that the main way to resolve conflict is through political mechanisms. the fate of syria must depend solely on the will of the syrian people. they alone have the right to decide the future and welfare of their country. there must be constructive negotiations to end the civil war. it is essential that a political solution to the conflict be found as soon as possible, that the violence be brought to an end and that adequate protection of the civilian population be ensured. the humanitarian crisis and the military conflict have spread beyond syria's borders and have had a particularly devastating impact on neighbouring countries. the flow of refugees is becoming a very serious problem. the quantitative needs of refugees are increasing very rapidly. in view of this, a political decision on their fate must be taken as soon as possible, as delay only exacerbates the problem. all parties to the conflict must ensure that international humanitarian law is duly respected and contribute to facilitating the delivery of humanitarian assistance so that it reaches the recipients.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the return of assets of the transitional arab spring countries. following the arab spring revolutions in egypt and tunisia, the european union froze the assets of former dictators, their families and others associated with the regime. today, the recovery of assets seized during the arab spring has a significant economic and social impact, as funds are lacking to stabilise the economy and create jobs and economic growth in these countries. i support calls for the eu and its member states to facilitate the return of assets seized and looted by the previous regime as soon as possible to the people of the arab spring countries. i support the proposals set out for all national asset recovery services in the member states to work closely together and develop relations with the relevant authorities in the arab spring countries. i support calls for the european external action service to play an active leadership role in coordinating member states' efforts, strengthening their capacities and promoting cooperation between all the countries concerned.
in writing. − during the arab spring revolutions in egypt, tunisia and libya, the eu swiftly froze the assets of former dictators, their families and some others associated with their regimes. the eu supports countries in the arab world committed to building free, democratic and tolerant societies. these countries are currently undergoing major political, economic and social changes. it is worth noting that the recovery of assets seized from arab spring countries also has an economic and social significance, as funds are needed to stabilise the economy and to create jobs and economic growth in these countries, which are facing serious economic problems. the european parliament is proposing a series of measures to ensure the smooth running of the process of returning assets belonging to arab countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union remains firmly committed to supporting an independent and united bosnia and herzegovina, which can expect to become a member of the eu, and this prospect is one of the most unifying factors for the country's population. the situation in the country is of concern due to the size of the informal economy and the high level of unemployment, especially among women and young people. the creation of a common economic space in the country, the creation of favourable conditions for the growth of enterprises, the strengthening of the internal sources of growth by reducing the dominance of the government in the economy and the participation of monopolies, the promotion of growth spending and the strengthening of competitiveness are therefore necessary. it is also important to undertake constitutional reforms at both the state and autonomous unit levels in order to make state structures at all levels more efficient, functional and transparent. the establishment of an independent, impartial and effective judiciary, supported by an impartial and independent police force, and the effective implementation of the justice sector reform strategy and the national war crimes strategy should be ensured.
in writing. − the eu supports bosnia and herzegovina as an independent and indivisible state, its economic and political development, stability and democracy, and is committed to granting eu membership when the country is fully ready. it is worth noting that the european perspective is one of the most unifying factors in the country's population. however, it is crucial at this stage that the political elite agree on a common vision of the country's overall direction and concrete eu integration strategy and cooperate constructively both with each other and with the eu. it is also essential to ensure that a culture of reconciliation is fostered in society and among the political elite. a democratic, dynamic and united state of bosnia and herzegovina is important both for the entire western balkan region and for the eu.
in writing. − in the run-up to eu membership, bosnia and herzegovina should make greater progress in implementing constitutional and political reforms. the country must have effective government structures that ensure the well-being of its citizens. delaying reforms only makes the preparation process more difficult. concrete action is needed to help solve political, economic and social problems. each country must respect the decisions of the european court of human rights and implement them properly and in a timely manner. failure to comply with these obligations must be subject to strict measures of effect linked to its membership of the eu. integration into the eu must be based on an unconditional commitment to european values. the law of a country may not be in conflict with the law of the european union. the legal and political system must be in line with the eu legal and political framework. it is also essential that the economy of a country is based on market principles and is adequately prepared for competition.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the 2012 progress report of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the european council decided not to open accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia for the fourth consecutive year, despite a favourable recommendation from the commission. the further postponement of the negotiations is increasing public frustration with the deadlock in the eu integration process and raises the risk of deepening the country's problems and international tensions. bilateral issues should not constitute an obstacle to the formal opening of accession negotiations, but should be resolved before the accession process is completed. enhanced political dialogue is essential to continue to make progress towards a peaceful society of diverse ethnic groups, cultures and religions and to eliminate the risks of societal polarization due to ethnic differences. strengthening political dialogue, exemplary leadership demonstrating recognition and tolerance of other ethnic groups, and an education system that teaches the values of a multiethnic society are the best ways to achieve a multiethnic society. in order to contribute to the democratic progress of the country, it is important to develop a political culture based on an independent, pluralistic, multicultural and impartial civil society. in addition, civil society findings may provide greater scope for evidence-based policy-making.
in writing. − the european parliament welcomes the progress made by the country and reaffirms its readiness for accession negotiations and calls on the european council to set the date for the opening of accession negotiations as soon as possible. it is worth noting that for the fourth consecutive year the council has not adopted this decision, despite the recommendations made by the commission. i believe that every effort must be made to ensure that bilateral issues, despite their importance, are resolved through mutual goodwill and do not put a stop to the process of common development. it is also important to take due account of the european parliament's recommendations in areas where further progress is needed.
in writing. − in view of the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the fact that the country continues to meet the political criteria, a date for the opening of accession negotiations should be set as soon as possible. this would be a huge boost to further reforms to restore the daily political process and improve the situation in the country. first, the problem of unemployment should be tackled as quickly as possible, it is noteworthy that youth unemployment is one of the highest in the world. this is a very big problem, holding back the integration process. in addition, fiscal decentralisation must be implemented and the transparency and impartiality of public administration must be ensured. it is very important to eliminate the internal and inter-ethnic segregation and to have a society of different ethnic groups in the country. i support the proposal for a compound name with a geographical indication. this is a good compromise presented by the greek government.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's trade and investment negotiations with the united states. given that the eu and the us are the two most important actors in global trade and investment, all possible avenues for closer cooperation and the benefits of international trade must be exploited for a sustainable global economic recovery. we, the members of the european parliament, support a comprehensive and comprehensive trade and investment agreement with the us, but at the same time we argue that cultural and audio-visual services, including those provided online, should not be included in the negotiations on a future us-eu free trade agreement. the eu's cultural and linguistic diversity must not be jeopardised, i.e. member states must maintain the possibility to preserve and develop cultural and audiovisual policies in accordance with the laws in force in the member states. we also call for the opening up of public procurement markets and for the protection of personal data. i hope that the agreement will remove the remaining barriers to transatlantic trade, particularly in the area of customs procedures and regulatory restrictions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a trade and investment agreement between the european union and the united states of america. the eu and us markets are closely interlinked, with an average of almost eur 2 billion of bilateral trade in goods and services per day. it is estimated that the transatlantic trade and investment partnership could generate €119.2 billion per year for the eu as a whole and €94.9 billion per year for the us. eu exports to the us could increase by 28% and 6% in total. the agreement will ensure improved mutual access to the market for goods, services, investment and public procurement, the reduction of non-tariff barriers and the enhancement of regulatory consistency, the development of common rules to address global trade challenges and to seize opportunities. i agree with the proposals made to exclude cultural and audiovisual services, including those provided online, from the negotiations. the agreement should include strong protection of precisely and clearly defined areas of intellectual property rights, including geographical indications. it is also necessary to harmonise standards for corporate social responsibility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union and the united states of america are the two most important players in world trade and investment, accounting together for almost half of global gdp and a third of world trade. the development and strengthening of the multilateral system is a key objective, and the strategic importance of eu-us economic relations should be reaffirmed and enhanced, and that the eu and the us should provide for a common approach to global trade, investment and trade-related issues, such as standards, norms and rules, in order to develop a broader transatlantic vision and a common set of strategic objectives. it is essential to exploit the untapped potential of a genuine integrated transatlantic market in order to create as many jobs as possible and to increase the potential for smart, robust, sustainable and balanced growth. the ambitious objectives of mutual access to markets for goods, services, investment and public procurement, the reduction of non-tariff barriers and the improvement of regulatory consistency and the development of common rules to address global trade challenges and opportunities should be pursued. the bilateral relationship should be based on the creation of high-quality jobs for european workers, direct benefits for eu consumers, new opportunities for eu companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to sell their goods and services in the us, full access for eu companies to the us public procurement market and better opportunities for eu investment in the us.
in writing. − the european parliament expresses its support for the opening of negotiations on a comprehensive trade and investment agreement between the eu and the us. an agreement between the two largest and most influential economies in the world on a common approach, common rules, the reduction of non-tariff barriers and market access would further strengthen the strategic transatlantic partnership. the european parliament intends to follow the negotiations closely and looks forward to an ambitious and wide-ranging agreement that will help to realise the full potential and opportunities.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the envisaged agreement will provide a framework for a common eu-us approach to global trade and will allow the full potential of an integrated transatlantic market to be exploited. eu fundamental rights standards must play a special role in the negotiations for the eu-us trade and investment agreement. the economic and social crisis cannot be a justification for lower social, environmental and labour standards than those applied before the crisis. investors from both countries must be granted equivalent rights and operating conditions. in addition, the precautionary principle should be given particular attention when dealing with environmental and other sensitive issues, particularly those related to the use of gmos. i believe that the eu must take a firm stand and retain unconditional competence to define its own cultural and audiovisual policies. this area should not be the subject of negotiations for the conclusion of an agreement. furthermore, public procurement in the field of defence and security must also be excluded from the negotiations on the liberalisation of public procurement. otherwise, competition will be distorted and the european defence industry will be placed on a different competitive footing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement between the eu and the us. i understand that negotiations will not be easy. both the eu and the us will reluctantly abandon the established subsidies that support local producers' practices. there is no guarantee that negotiators will be able to agree on a final text or that all eu countries will agree. but i think it's worth a try. the eu and the us could become the main global trade-shaping bloc. the standards agreed would become the de facto world standards. other economies around the world would have to catch up. i think we must exploit the situation that has arisen, where there is a positive mood on both sides of the atlantic towards negotiations. and the results of the negotiations, when we have them, will be able to be approved or rejected in the next ep plenary sessions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the renewal of the access of myanmar/burma to the common tariff preferences. the purpose of the proposal is to re-establish the benefit of the common preferential tariff for myanmar. since 1971, the eu has provided a 'general system of preferential customs tariffs' (gst) for developing countries. in 1997, myanmar was provisionally excluded from the gsp tariff because of the prevalence and widespread use of forced labour in the country. since 2011, myanmar has made significant efforts to reform, including in the area of forced labour, and the commission therefore proposes to reinstate preferential tariffs under the existing gsp regulation. i think that although some progress has been made, forced labour in myanmar has not been completely abolished. i support the calls on the commission to continue to monitor developments in relation to forced labour in myanmar. i believe that the eu should ensure that european trade and investment in this country is driven by the highest standards of corporate social responsibility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the report of the un special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in myanmar states that human rights issues remain a serious concern, as well as the continued use of unsanctioned detentions, forced displacements and land confiscation, the use of child soldiers, attacks against ethnic minorities and the weakness of the judiciary, despite the actions taken by the government of president thein sein. myanmar (burma) is geographically situated in a region of strategic and geopolitical importance, in particular for the european union, the united states, china, india and australia. due to a long period of military rule that has permeated and shaped all layers of burmese society, despite important initiatives aimed at democratisation, change is slow and requires international support and assistance. responsible and sustainable trade and investment, including with or by the european union, can help myanmar (burma) to fight poverty and ensure that the benefits of measures reach a wider population. strengthen the state's trade institutions and trade policies, taking into account their positive impact on the country's economy, and take all necessary steps to maximise the benefits of eu trade-related support and access to 'everything but arms' incentives.
in writing. − the renewal of the gsp benefits for myanmar depends solely on the progress made by the country itself and the stability, irreversibility and sustainability of the reforms carried out. the country has made significant changes in various areas, which are to be welcomed. however, violence against ethnic groups continues in the country. in view of this, the government of myanmar must take immediate action and ratify the convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment as soon as possible. in addition, the country must change its laws that are contrary to international human rights standards. a centralised mechanism should be in place for european companies operating in myanmar to be subject to an obligation to exercise due diligence in the field of human rights and to provide public and regular information.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a regional strategy for the alps. the aim of the strategy is to make better use of existing resources to address territorial development issues in the region. the macro-regional strategy for the alps should be similar to the strategies adopted by the eu for the baltic sea and danube regions and will give the alps a greater importance in the eu and better access to funding. the alpine region is multi-country, its economic capacity is diverse, and the region faces increasing environmental, demographic, transport infrastructure and other challenges. policy coordination between all stakeholders would yield better results and i therefore support calls for the commission to present an action plan for this area. it is necessary to create the right conditions for economic growth and effective social and territorial cohesion in the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the alpine region belongs to several eu member states and non-eu countries. these countries are linked by a macro-region with different economic capacities and increasing environmental, demographic, transport infrastructure, tourism and energy-related challenges, and coordination of internal and external policies of all stakeholders could yield better results and additional benefits. the development of broad-based strategies, such as macro-regional strategies, should help to strengthen the role of the local and regional level in the implementation of eu policies. such an alpine strategy would effectively address the common challenges facing the entire alpine region, exploit its significant potential in a consistent manner and meet the need to improve mobility, energy security, environmental protection, socio-economic situation, cultural exchanges and civil security in the alpine region. it is important to increase the innovation capacity of the alpine region through such a strategy, by leveraging the capabilities of its workforce, by building partnerships and cooperation between key stakeholders (labour market, education, training and research actors as well as employers), by keeping young people active in the region, by supporting creativity and by building the capacities of the different regions in the fields of education, science and research.
in writing. − it is good to see that the good experience of the baltic sea strategy, the forerunner of the european union's macro-regional strategies, is encouraging other eu regions to adopt similar practices of enhanced cooperation and coordination. the danube macro-regional strategy, which was developed on this basis, is already operational and in this resolution the european parliament supports the development of another strategy, the alpine macro-region. this mountainous region includes several eu member states and non-eu countries. the strategy will help to make more effective use of existing resources in addressing a range of issues related to demographic change, transport infrastructure, tourism and energy. it will also allow us to respond more effectively to the emerging common challenges of climate change and the environment. it will ultimately contribute to the objectives of the eu's europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the macro-regional strategy not only creates added value for the european union, but also encourages the involvement of local and regional authorities. i believe that this strategy will be a major boost for the entire alpine region in tackling the current problems of territorial development. it will also help to exploit its great potential and give the eu a new dimension and a greater importance. the macro-regional strategy for the alps will help the region to find the right answer to the questions of sustainable and sustainable development. it will also provide access to finance and create the right conditions for economic growth. it should be noted that the geographical scope of the alpine strategy would be limited to the territory covered by the alpine convention.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on improving working conditions and health and safety standards in bangladesh following the recent factory fires and building collapse. bangladesh still has a low level of labour rights enforcement and often a low level of safety. the european market is the largest importer of textiles produced in bangladesh. it is essential that the commission ensures that eu companies based abroad better comply with the principles of corporate social responsibility. bangladesh is committed to ensuring the implementation of the un and ilo conventions on human rights and labour rights. i support calls on the commission to investigate bangladesh's compliance with these conventions and to review the preferential tariffs if it appears that bangladesh is systematically violating the principles laid down in them. the commission should do more to promote responsible behaviour by eu companies operating abroad and to ensure compliance with international standards and rules in the fields of human rights, labour and environmental protection. i support the development of a voluntary social labelling standard to confirm that the product has been produced in accordance with the basic octs labour standards throughout the supply chain.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because bangladesh is the second largest exporter of ready-made garments in the world, behind only china. it has over 5 000 textile factories employing over 4 million people, garment exports account for 75% of total exports, and the european market is the largest importer of bangladeshi-made clothing and textiles. on 24 april 2013, the collapse of a garment factory in dhaka, bangladesh, located in the 'rana plaza' building, killed more than 1 100 people and injured approximately 2 500, and approximately 600 garment workers have died in factory fires in bangladesh alone since 2005, before the 'rana plaza' factory tragedy. conditions in such textile factories are often poor and workers' rights, working conditions and safety requirements are not adequately guaranteed or respected. such tragic accidents call attention to the lack of safety standards at production sites and demonstrate the urgent need to take action to improve the implementation of core labour standards to enhance the corporate social responsibility of multinational textile retailers. retailers, non-governmental organisations and all other relevant actors, including the commission where appropriate, should cooperate to develop a voluntary social labelling standard to certify that the product has been produced in accordance with basic labour standards throughout the supply chain.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. only through joint efforts can all forms of modern slavery, child labour and exploitation be prevented, fundamental workers' rights guaranteed and social dumping prevented. the tragic events in bangladesh have shown that social responsibility programmes are ineffective and that ilo labour standards are not being implemented. it is essential that countries such as bangladesh properly respect the agreed labour directives and core environmental commitments and ensure transparency of labour standards at production sites, especially where european companies are present. it should be noted that the gsp is the eu's main trade policy instrument for promoting fundamental human and labour rights and sustainable development. given the persistence and systematic nature of violations and their scale in the area of human and labour law, i believe that strict liability must be provided for and even the possibility of withdrawing or restricting a country's right to freedom of movement and free access to the eu market.
mr president, 14 june is the day of mourning and hope – mourning for hundreds of thousands of innocent people, entire families arrested without charge and deported in cattle wagons to gulags in the far east of the soviet union for unpaid work in inhuman and degrading conditions, suffering constant torture and famine. almost half the deportees were children and infants. these horrific crimes against humanity took place over 12 years, from 1941 to 1953. 14 june is also the day of hope – hope for freedom from totalitarianism. this dream has now been realised, but history should not be forgotten. last week we celebrated the 25th anniversary of the reform movement sąjūdis, which brought freedom to lithuania and enabled my country, along with the others, to come back into the european family. i am happy to invite my colleagues to commemorate, here in the european parliament on 26 june, the baltic way – the human chain which brought together more than 3 million people. solidarity is our strength. remembering the history of a united europe makes us stronger.
social housing is a matter of concern to all member states of the european union and the right to housing is a fundamental right of every person. we must therefore ensure it, because it is one of the conditions for a person to be able to live a normal social, personal and family life, to be able to take care of himself, to rest, to look for a job, to have a bank account and finally to be able to vote. firstly, it is necessary to draw the attention of member states to energy poverty, where people with housing are unable to pay their heating bills. member states should take additional measures to reduce energy poverty through the application of social energy tariffs, the provision of social support, guarantees to households against energy supply interruptions, and the improvement of energy efficiency of housing. i would also like to stress that investment in social housing is not only addressing the needs of people living in poverty, but also helping the construction sector, which has been hit hard by the crisis, by promoting renovation sectors and the development of green jobs.
in writing. consumer protection is at the heart of all our objectives in many areas. when it comes to children, babies or people with special needs and food for them, in this case, we must aim to achieve the highest standards of quality. today we are talking about the regulation on food for infants and young children and food for special purposes, which has been under discussion for a long time. the vote will fill one of the last legal gaps in the regulation of food information for consumers. it is essential that consumers are not misled as to the composition and properties of food. i therefore welcome the position that this document will regulate the list of substances (components) used in food. this will ensure transparency and clarity and will also allow the consumer to evaluate the product in terms of the substances used in its composition when choosing the product. another very important aspect is the advertising and publicity of products. the consumer must not be exposed to the slightest risk by unfair advertising or incomplete or inaccurate information. therefore, the highest standards for labelling and information on products for infants should be maintained: only such information and visual material should be provided on the labelling or presentation of such products as to facilitate an objective choice of the product and not to overestimate the benefits of the product. i agree with this document and the strict provisions it contains on the substances permitted in such products and i am confident that after three years from the entry into force of this regulation, proper labelling of these products will be ensured.
first of all, i would like to congratulate rapporteur emer costello on a really good job. poverty and social exclusion are not declining in the european union. the economic and financial crisis has only increased poverty in europe. member states are no longer able to cope with these problems on their own and the european solidarity fund for the most deprived is therefore needed now more than ever. i therefore congratulate the committee on employment and social affairs on its vote to increase the fund's budget to eur 3.5 billion, because this is certainly not the time to cut the fund's resources. i am in favour of making this fund available and binding on all the member states of the european union, because that is the only way to give real help to the people in those countries. sadly, children are the most vulnerable to poverty and social exclusion. thus, the material shortage does not endanger them only in the way they eat. and so i support that support for people in need could be provided not only with food but with other forms of assistance such as clothing, shoes, educational resources. i would therefore like to conclude by saying that, in appreciating the importance of the fund for european aid to the most deprived for all people, i hope that those member states which have so far blocked the creation of such a fund will really appreciate its importance and act sensibly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a multiannual plan for cod stocks and the fishing methods used for these stocks. council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 of 2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fishing opportunities available for those stocks, adopted before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, incorporated a number of provisions which conferred decision-making powers on the council, although this is no longer possible under the treaty. the commission has therefore proposed to align this regulation with the new framework established by the treaty. as this regulation is one of the first pieces of legislation in the fisheries sector to be brought into line with the new treaty, it is important to safeguard the powers conferred on parliament by the treaty of lisbon. at the same time, we aim to clarify fishing mortality rates and the levels of non-target stocks on the basis of scientific data and to establish rules on the method for calculating fishing capacity. i support the proposals set out to further define the circumstances in which the commission may adopt delegated acts and to include a clear reference to the ordinary legislative procedure, indicating that this procedure is to be used to amend any part of the plan, except in specific cases.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document, as it is not always clear what type of act is to be used. delegated and implementing acts have the advantage over legislative acts of being able to react quickly to a new situation. the ordinary legislative procedure and the delegated acts ensure that parliament is involved in the decision-making process on the same terms as the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a new european consumer policy agenda. in may 2012, the european commission published a draft european consumer agenda, with the main priorities of ensuring food safety and security in the areas of healthcare, energy, financial and digital products. some 80 million eu citizens cannot afford basic necessities such as paying rent or accessing adequate health and education services. the consumer agenda provides ways to reduce consumer inequality in europe. it also aims to ensure legal certainty for consumers, efficient and reliable delivery of goods and services, and consumer protection online. i agree that there is a need to increase consumer awareness of their rights, provide clear information, ensure simple and accessible redress mechanisms and support consumer organisations. i agree that a european association register should be set up to enable associations to be set up at european level. i support the proposal to set up a financial inspectorate to detect irregularities and, after receiving consumer complaints, to punish institutions that have infringed the legislation in force. it is essential to include food safety and labelling aspects in the consumer agenda and to discuss the problem of food waste, considering the need to ensure the safety of the food supply chain from production to consumption. it is also necessary to provide the user with a secure digital environment and access to telecommunications networks, in compliance with the provisions on the protection of personal data.
in writing. − i voted for this report because ensuring food safety and security in the areas of healthcare, energy, finance and digital products should be one of the top priorities on the european consumer agenda. around the world, european consumers are facing new challenges such as the globalisation of markets, financial deregulation, the digitalisation of the economy and an ageing society. for all these reasons, compensation and support for consumer organisations have become even more important actions. in addition, the current financial crisis has made the decisions consumers have to take more complex. it is therefore necessary to ensure that consumers have access to effective, transparent and reliable information. recent studies by the european commission show that consumers need to continue to develop their capacity to make decisions about markets. there is therefore a need to promote consumer empowerment, awareness of consumer rights and clear and transparent information, consumer organisations and simple and accessible redress mechanisms.
in writing. − i supported this proposal as the top priority of the european consumer agenda should be to ensure food safety and security in the areas of healthcare, energy, financial and digital products. the agenda also announced the final stage of the digital single market, which is necessary to ensure consumer protection online, legal certainty, guarantees of consumer rights and efficient and reliable delivery of goods and services. a consumer agenda is needed to reduce consumer inequalities in europe and to help build a low-carbon economy. on a global scale, european consumers are facing new challenges such as the globalisation of markets, the deregulation of financial markets, the digitalisation of the economy and an ageing society. all these factors have given rise to the importance of the compensation mechanism and the support of consumer organisations. in addition, the current financial crisis has made the decisions consumers have to take more complex. it is therefore necessary to ensure that consumers have access to effective, transparent, reliable and comparable information. the european consumer agenda gives concrete meaning to the principle of the treaty on european union that the interests of consumers must be taken into account in the implementation of all relevant eu policies. groups of persons who are particularly vulnerable because of their physical and psychological condition or age, or who become vulnerable because of their social or financial situation, must be given special protection to enable them to access essential services and the necessary financial resources.
in writing. - i support the document adopted today. i believe that the eu agenda still does not pay enough attention to the effective protection of consumer rights. the recent case of possible differences in the quality of food products of the same brand in different eu member states shows that the issue is relevant and i hope that the commission will take note of this and review the existing legal framework.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on legal aid in crossborder civil and commercial disputes. directive 2003/8/ec of 2003 providing for the right to bring an action in international disputes and establishing minimum common rules on legal aid for such disputes aims to ensure that the poorest members of society have access to justice in another member state. the directive applies only to civil and commercial matters and does not apply to disputes in the fields of criminal or public law. in 2012, the commission presented the first evaluation report on the directive, which noted that all member states were in principle successfully applying the directive. the main problem identified in the report is the low level of awareness of the directive: only 12% of citizens are aware of the existence of crossborder legal aid. i agree that it is important to ensure that there is greater awareness of cross-border legal aid, especially among practising lawyers. i support the proposals made to ensure that applicants have the possibility of seeking legal aid in their member state of residence or in the member state where it is needed. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the international right to trial lays down similar rules on the right to legal aid applicable at international level. i support the encouragement of member states to sign the convention so that citizens can also exercise their right to legal aid in third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the right to a trial in international disputes and the establishment of common rules on legal aid for such disputes is one of the most important legal acts for eu citizens. they are designed to ensure that people without resources also have access to justice in other member states. it is worth noting that this directive applies only to civil and commercial matters. the definition of civil and commercial matters is understood as being defined separately in eu law, which means that certain disputes which in some member states would be considered as public disputes may be covered by the provisions of this directive. the main problem is that the directive is not well known. the commission found that only 12% of citizens were aware of the existence of crossborder legal aid. if citizens are not aware of the possibility of requesting cross-border legal aid, it is unlikely that they will use this right when they are in a situation where they need it. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to submit a revised proposal to address the deficiencies and inaccuracies in interpretation identified in its report (com ((2012) 0071) and to address situations not yet regulated. it is necessary to take action to further harmonise the rules of the member states in order to avoid further misunderstandings and legislative gaps.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because this directive is too little known. the commission found that only 12% of citizens were aware of the existence of crossborder legal aid. if citizens are not aware of the possibility of requesting cross-border legal aid, it is unlikely that they will use this right when they are in a situation where they need it. it is therefore important to take measures to ensure that lawyers, in particular practitioners, are better informed about cross-border legal aid. applicants for legal aid should be able to apply for legal aid either in their member state of residence or in the member state where it is required. each institution should apply its own limits and guidelines. if the application is accepted by the authority of the member state of residence, the national would be issued with a certificate attesting to that right, which would in turn be accepted by the authorities of the other member states without reassessment of the situation. this would greatly facilitate the situation of citizens (and the relevant authorities) and speed up procedures.
in writing. − ensuring access to legal aid outside the home country is essential for eu citizens to access justice in other member states. unfortunately, due to lack of information and other reasons, these rights have not yet been actively exercised. i therefore support this document, which calls on the commission to improve the conditions for providing legal aid to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the enforcement of intellectual property rights by customs. intellectual property rights (ipr) ensure access to the benefits of research, innovation and creative activity. trade in infringing goods has negative economic effects on industry and products may pose risks to the health and safety of consumers. the proposal therefore aims to enable customs to better ensure the protection of intellectual property rights. the proposal aims to maintain the possibility of customs controls to safeguard intellectual property rights in all cases where goods are placed under customs supervision. procedures are also provided for which give the right to order the customs authorities to destroy the goods, under certain conditions, without the need for formal and costly judicial proceedings. if the owner of the counterfeit goods does not object to the destruction of the goods, he is therefore in agreement with the destruction of the goods. the proposal also clarifies the periods of detention of suspect goods, the conditions under which information on the consignment is transmitted by customs to rightholders, the procedures for allowing the destruction of goods under customs supervision in the event of suspected infringements of intellectual property rights, the conditions for the application of the procedure and the rights of defence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to provide guarantees to protect consumers against misleading information on the labelling, presentation or advertising of foodstuffs. it is of the utmost importance to establish restrictions or prohibitions on certain pesticides, to ensure that maximum residue levels are as low as possible and to seek to review the requirements for the advertising, promotion and commercial practices of food products (such as infant formulae) in the light of good agricultural practice and other sources of exposure. it is worth noting that the european parliament has negotiated the inclusion of the list of substances that can be added to foodstuffs in the basic act as an annex and its future updating by means of delegated acts. the compromise text also takes into account the request of the european parliament that the list should specify which categories of substances may be added to which categories of food and that not all substances may be added to all categories of food.
in writing. − i have endorsed this document, which aims to amend directive 2004/40/ec of the european parliament and of the council1 of 29 april 2004 on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields). the directive sets thresholds which must not be exceeded. however, health professionals themselves have asked the commission to submit new proposals for a directive, as the reality is different from the overly strict requirements of the directive and it is therefore desirable that less stringent limits apply. however, the reduction of the thresholds cannot be at the expense of the workers and must be based on long-term health effects. i support the amendments tabled by the european parliament and the calls for the european commission and the member states to do more research and collect more data on the long-term effects of exposure to electric, magnetic and electromagnetic fields. the compilation of these data will enable the commission to submit a new proposal on long-term health effects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as more appropriate and proportionate measures should be introduced to protect workers from the risks posed by electromagnetic fields. these measures should address the problems associated with any known direct and indirect biophysical effects of electromagnetic fields, with a view not only to ensuring the health and safety of each individual worker, but also to providing the minimum protection for all workers in the european union. the level of exposure to electromagnetic fields can be reduced more effectively by providing for preventive measures in the design of workplaces and by selecting work equipment, procedures and methods with a view to reducing risks at the source of the field. it is worth noting that, where exposure exceeds the limit values, the employer should ensure that the workers concerned are provided with adequate medical care, in accordance with national law and practice. i would therefore urge the european commission to seek to prevent any adverse health effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields and to diagnose such effects at an early stage, to carry out appropriate health checks in accordance with article 14 of directive 89/391/eec and to monitor more actively the health of workers in these sectors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that improvements are necessary, especially in the working environment, to ensure better health and safety protection for workers. every worker has the right to safe working conditions which are conducive to his or her health and dignity. therefore, more appropriate and proportionate measures should be laid down to protect workers from the risks posed by electromagnetic fields.
in writing. − in the modern world, with the increasing number of sources of electromagnetic fields surrounding humans, it is essential to prevent the radiation from these sources from affecting human health. therefore, i support the minimum risk reduction, health and safety requirements set out in the latter document.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to restore cod stocks while ensuring that it is supported by the stakeholders. regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 establishing a multiannual plan for cod stocks was published on 18 december 2012. the plan represents what is considered a crucial step in the recovery of cod stocks in the northern waters of the eu. three years after its implementation, the plan was reviewed by the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries, which noted that fishing mortality had not decreased and that in many areas the plan was not supported by the stakeholders. i agree that the plan needs to be improved and that it is important to take more account of scientific advice when deciding on cod stocks. although overall cod mortality is decreasing, it is necessary to reinforce this trend. i welcome the proposals for expanding and strengthening cooperation between scientists and industry in the fisheries sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it should be possible to restore fish stocks by ensuring a constant fishing mortality rate and taking scientific advice into account. it is important to note that the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries, while acknowledging that only three years have passed since the plan was implemented, nevertheless noted that the current plan has not reduced fishing mortality and that in many areas the plan is not supported by the stakeholders. a plan supported by stakeholders is more likely to be successful, as it is the stakeholders who need to act to encourage its successful implementation. in short, if they agreed to the plan, they would also assume responsibility for the fulfilment of their obligations. the proposed amendments aim to strengthen and extend the cooperation between scientists and industry in the fisheries sector. we have already seen successful projects in several fisheries areas where cod is a concern. the aim is to limit cod catches and reduce discards while maintaining a stable catch of target species.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the european parliament's special committee on combating organised crime, corruption and money laundering (crim) was mandated to examine the extent of organised crime, corruption and money laundering and to propose appropriate measures to enable the eu to prevent and prevent and combat these threats at international, european and national levels. according to europol, there are currently at least 3 600 criminal groups operating in the eu, of which at least 70% have members of different nationalities, reflecting the cross-border nature of the phenomenon. the global financial crisis has also created the conditions for more intensive criminal activity and the emergence of new activities such as fraud and corruption in professional sports, infiltration of the legal economy through fraud and money laundering. poverty also provides a breeding ground for organised crime, in particular for activities related to trafficking in human beings and their organs, forced prostitution, human slavery and the setting up of labour camps. i agree with the call for the commission to take all possible action as a matter of urgency to strengthen the fight against organised crime, corruption and fraud, to devote more resources to combating the use of social networks and electronic crime for trafficking in human beings and to increase cross-border judicial and police cooperation between eu member states and eu agencies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because criminal organisations have gradually extended their activities internationally, taking advantage of the opening of the european union's internal borders and the opportunities offered by economic globalisation and new technologies. it is clear that the development and implementation of measures to disrupt the financial resources of criminal organisations and, where appropriate, to declassify banking information is essential for the effective fight against all forms of organised crime. it is worth noting that money laundering, corruption and organised crime by european actors cause serious damage to developing countries and impede their development by plundering their natural resources, constraining fiscal resources and increasing public sector debt, and that it is therefore necessary to combat organised crime and money laundering by all means. for these reasons, member states should cooperate as closely as possible with the european parliament and the commission. at eu level, member states should develop as uniform and consistent as possible indicators for europol, eurojust and the fundamental rights agency to assess at least the prevalence, costs and social damage of eu-based organised crime, corruption and money laundering.
in writing. − the eu currently faces a great threat due to the globalisation of organised crime and how this has allowed it to become an economic global player. traditional criminal organisations have extended their reach and, through new technology, have begun working with criminal groups in other countries and continents. corruption and money laundering are separate phenomena but related to organised crime as the business frequently operates through these mechanisms. these enable organised crime to benefit from a significant illicit competitive advantage which, in turn, allows it to negatively impact the lawful economy. as organised crime reaches new global levels, the response must match. this report was created from meetings with various organisations that all cited the major problem they face in organised crime. therefore, it is imperative that the eu commits to fighting this problem and sets it as a priority. i voted in favour of this report because we must begin addressing organised crime in its new forms by developing new social and law enforcement paradigms. by recognising the threat posed by organised crime, we can be effective in fighting against it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to show how the social housing sector can help the european union overcome the economic, social and environmental crisis. today, some 25 million citizens of the european union live in social housing. nevertheless, a large number of eu citizens still lack the means to buy adequate housing. investment in social housing is a means of addressing the challenges of an ageing society, the needs of young people and the inclusion of marginalised communities and the homeless. investment in social housing supports the construction and renovation sectors, and the adequate supply of such housing reduces the size of the real estate bubble. the added value of structural funds and eib loans to promote social housing investments should be emphasised. social inclusion must be based on a sufficient supply of quality social housing at an affordable price to overcome the associated health problems. i support the proposals in the next multiannual financial programme to provide for a sufficient amount of these funds and to facilitate their use and redistribution of unused funds to social housing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because social housing is of great importance to all the countries of the european union. unfortunately, there are currently 4.1 million homeless people in the european union and about 25 million in social housing. from an economic point of view, investments in social housing should be seen as cost-effective and long-term. adequate supply of social housing also helps to reduce the scale of property cycles and so-called property bubbles that destabilise the economy. the structural funds and the european investment bank also provide loans to promote social housing investments. i would like to stress that member states must inevitably address energy poverty where people with housing are unable to pay their heating bills. they should take additional measures to reduce energy poverty through the application of social energy tariffs, social support, guarantees to ensure that households do not lose energy supply, and the energy efficiency of housing. member states should take seriously the european parliament's proposals for concrete measures to overcome poverty and social exclusion in the european union. the solution of these painful problems cannot be postponed to tomorrow or left to future generations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it aims to show how the social housing sector can help the european union to overcome the economic, social and environmental crisis. social housing is one of the means available to public authorities to respond to the inadequacy of the housing market, to meet all housing needs and to ensure that everyone can afford adequate housing at an affordable price (affordable rent). the market's inability to meet all housing needs affects not only those who simply cannot afford housing, but also those who live in unsuitable, unfurnished or overcrowded housing. there is a clear social need to invest in the social housing sector. europe is experiencing a major housing crisis, which is continuing and possibly intensifying despite the shocking information regularly provided to the european public in the winter, when the situation of homeless people is intolerable.
in writing. − the right to housing is a fundamental human right, and social housing is therefore essential. this is an important step towards eradicating poverty and achieving greater social cohesion. this is particularly relevant in the current period of economic stagnation and high unemployment. i support this proposal because i believe it will contribute to the welfare of single mothers, young people, roma and other social groups. for low-income households, heating taxes represent a very high proportion of the costs. i would therefore like to stress the importance of building renovation in the fight against energy poverty. the renovation of housing will also have a positive impact on the fight against climate change, while also contributing to the regeneration of the construction sector and the creation of green jobs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the persisting problems in the field of gender equality, particularly in relation to the mobility of women. women still face many obstacles when moving from one country to another, including insufficient integration and foreign language skills, inadequate working conditions and social protection, and less favourable conditions for reconciling family and work life. in particular, as regards women's mobility for employment, it is essential to ensure the integration of women into the labour market, i.e. the acquisition and exchange of qualifications, the development of skills and competences, and the provision of lifelong learning opportunities. we must create the conditions and ensure that women can find good, qualified and not just any jobs so that they can earn and support themselves. it is also essential to address the problem of 'women's waste of mind', i.e. the under-use of skills by women who go abroad. this is particularly evident in the care and household sectors, which are predominantly female. secondly, in education, more and more women are getting an education that helps them get better jobs, but there is still a gendered and stereotyped division of the labour market in the eu, which makes it difficult for women to get higher positions in the workforce, to participate in decision-making, and this has negative consequences for women's careers, salaries and, of course, their pensions.
in writing. − i voted for this document because europe has big challenges ahead of it to make the labour market more open and accessible. in particular, it is appropriate to aim at better adapting systems for the mobility of professionals, education and vocational training to the new requirements of the labour market, improving continuing education and skills and improving systems for the recognition of professional qualifications. secondly, the persistently low level of labour mobility in the member states shows that the benefits of the internal market are not being fully exploited. there are still too many barriers to mobility, including insufficient knowledge of foreign languages, poor work-life balance and outdated national social security laws. access to information on cross-border mobility is still limited, in many cases of poor quality, and this is holding many people back. i believe that all citizens have the right to an adequate level of education, to have the opportunity to update their knowledge and to acquire new skills in their professional lives. governments, public authorities, employers, social partners and individual citizens have a shared responsibility to achieve these goals. higher and better education leads to higher employment levels, and higher education levels contribute to higher female employment over the long term and have a direct positive impact on gdp.
in writing. - women's mobility is a major factor in achieving economic and social progress. it helps to improve women's professional skills and increase their employment rate, thus addressing gender inequality. by ensuring mobility, we will create more opportunities for women to take up promising jobs, develop their skills and express themselves in a variety of activities. particular attention should be paid to women working without contracts, who are often not provided with adequate social guarantees. i would also like to point out that increased mobility is a path towards greater solidarity between european citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the electronic toll service and the system of reverse charge for light passenger vehicles. the commission considers that the european electronic toll service (eets) project has not been a success. not enough attention has been paid to the rapidly developing technologies of global positioning system (gps) /general packet radio service (gprs). the commission has not yet carried out a thorough assessment of the possibilities available. i agree that the reduced roaming charges under the regulation should be a model for the commission to take into account when deciding on the eerp. this is the case where, after many years of unsuccessful negotiations to persuade operators to reduce their tariffs, the commission started to apply a regulation thus forcing operators to reduce their tariffs. i support the proposals set out to ensure data and privacy protection, to use online payment systems to ensure price transparency and convenience, to strengthen the polluter pays principle and, at the same time, to reduce the administrative burden on carriers, smes and car users. i agree that it is important to encourage member states to use road toll systems rather than time-based charging systems, as the latter systems do not accurately reflect actual road use and therefore do not respect the polluter pays principle.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the current european electronic toll service (eerp) system developed by the european commission is not functional and needs to be thoroughly revised. it is worth noting that the implementation of new electronic toll systems has consistently encountered certain problems in cross-border areas, which have led to protests and complaints about financial losses and discrimination. for these reasons, the european commission should consider appropriate legislative measures in this area as soon as possible in order to commit all stakeholders to the progressive implementation of the eerp project. it is known that the market-based approach has not produced the expected results and it is therefore necessary to examine the shortcomings that have led to this situation. the commission should provide in its work programmes relating to the trans-european transport networks for the possibility of financing projects whose implementation could allow the acceleration of the implementation of the eerp system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the current system of the european electronic toll service (eets) developed by the commission is not functional and needs to be thoroughly revised. the eu has a responsibility to ensure that this new change does not negatively affect crossborder travel and the daily lives or trade of people living in border regions. the eu must also promote the charging of road use without discriminating against road users who do not live in the country where the toll is charged. in the future, more money will be needed not only to build new roads but also, and above all, to maintain and maintain existing transport infrastructure. member states should be allowed to apply distance or time-based taxation schemes, but steps should be taken to ensure that, where possible, distance-based schemes are preferred as they are fairer and less discriminatory than time-based schemes. the technologies needed to ensure the interoperability of road charging systems are already in place. the overall main problem with the eerp is not market or technical issues but the lack of political will to implement the system.
while the lower can still live in the old, the upper still wants to rule the old. i am paraphrasing the famous theoretician who explained the theory of the origins of revolutions in this way many decades ago, but today europe is faced not with a theory but with a practice that looks at concrete social and economic problems through the eyes of 25 million unemployed europeans. a fifth of them (5 million) are young people under 30. the european commission's initiatives have had little effect. i'm being very diplomatic here. the causes of unemployment cannot be identified and eliminated. the problem is expected to be solved by imposing new taxes or increasing old taxes, but not by creating jobs to pay those taxes. the overall coverage of the active work instruments and the funding provided by the individual instruments are insufficient and the instruments are poorly targeted. the unemployment rate is particularly high among young people and unskilled workers. we need to create a network of industry and business that creates new jobs and sustains old ones. we must seek closer cooperation between academic institutions and business so that every young person who graduates from an educational institution has already been introduced through a professional internship and knows which company he will work for. the european commission and the member states must do much more to restore social well-being than to focus on geographical mobility, thus encouraging mass migration from the south of europe to the north.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. the proposal aims to adapt certain provisions of the regulation to the decision-making procedures laid down in the treaty of lisbon. iuu fishing is one of the greatest threats to marine biodiversity and can cause food security problems in many coastal and developing countries. the amendment of the regulation could allow the commission to set standards for the inspection of landing and transhipment operations by third country fishing vessels, to adapt the system of certification of catches to certain fishery products caught by small fishing vessels, to amend the list of products not covered by this regulation, to adapt the deadline for the submission of a catch certificate to the type of fishery product, etc. i agree with the commission's amendments. i agree with the proposal that, where delegated acts are proposed, the time limits for the delegation of power should be limited in order to allow for a continuous assessment of the way in which they are used.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to prevent illegal and unregulated fishing, to establish rules to create a common framework and to ensure that the relevant documents are transmitted to the european parliament and the council simultaneously, in a timely and appropriate manner. it is important to note that the eu has not achieved good results in applying regulation (ec) no 1005/2008. the commission therefore concludes that the measures in force are in line with the principles of the union interest as set out in article 3 (1) of the basic regulation. in short, most member states complained that it would impede trade or that it would be too expensive and difficult to implement. however, illegal fishing is one of the greatest threats to marine biodiversity and can cause food security problems in many coastal and developing countries. it is worth noting that the united states recently published its third biennial list of countries whose vessels have been found to be engaged in illegal fishing. the us list, in contrast to the modest eu list, includes a number of larger illegal fishing countries - the eu has not done so - such as korea, mexico. it is therefore important to ensure that all commission services work together to find ways of ensuring and facilitating the effective application of the regulation to implement union policies and legislation.
in writing. − from an economic point of view, illegal fish may appear attractive. as they are caught in defiance of environmental, social and other standards, fishermen are usually able to sell them at a lower price. therefore, wholesalers and retailers find it more cost-effective to buy such fish. this explains why many people are not enthusiastic about a regulation that prohibits illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing. it is easy to disapprove of illegal fishing in principle, but it is hard to approve of it anyway. but if opposition to illegal fishing disrupts the supply of fish to the eu market, reduces profits or creates barriers to trade with important eu trading partners, it will be much more difficult to fight illegal fishing. parliament has adopted a number of reports and resolutions calling on the commission to combat iuu fishing with all its available resources and by all possible means, including, inter alia, discouraging the re-registration of vessels in another country, collecting information on private agreements, improving product traceability and enhancing international cooperation and information exchange. i agree that all commission services must work together to find ways of ensuring and facilitating the effective application of the regulation, the implementation of union policies and legislation. in short, it is one thing to talk about tackling iuu fishing, but quite another to act. i am in favour of stopping the destruction of all our resources and taking action to protect and conserve them.
in writing. − illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is a global problem, causing economic hardship for fishing communities, consumers and the sector as a whole. the eu is the world's largest importer of fishery products and one of the world's largest fisheries operators. it plays a key role in mobilising the international community to combat iuu fishing. in order to prevent illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, it is appropriate to empower the commission to adopt delegated acts. however, the mandate should be limited in time and should be subject to regular reporting requirements. this will enhance cooperation between eu institutions, improve information gathering and ensure the rigorous and transparent application of union fisheries legislation. in addition, a strict control system will ensure the effective implementation of the strategy to combat iuu fishing, enhance resource management and reduce illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation on the reception of applicants for international protection. this proposal aims to ensure stricter and more consistent requirements for the procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection, ensuring that the protection needs of third-country nationals or stateless persons are adequately addressed, in accordance with the international and eu obligations of the member states. the proposal lays down new european rules on asylum which will harmonise the asylum procedure, the time limits for processing applications, and the basic rights of asylum seekers, and will help to avoid crises. the proposal aims to increase the efficiency of decision-making and to encourage member states to provide reasoned first-instance decisions within a reasonable time. the separation of asylum seekers and other migrants when they arrive together would be accelerated, thus rationalising the use of administrative resources. asylum staff will be able to better identify cases of unjustified and abusive requests, and member states should also be able to reduce their reception costs and remove asylum seekers who have not been granted asylum from their territory. real refugees will be able to benefit from their rights more quickly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because it amends the 2003 reception conditions directive, which sets minimum standards for the reception of asylum seekers, and aims to ensure a more perfect and harmonised standard of behaviour. it deals in particular with the grounds for detention and provides a detailed list of rules and guarantees. the right to work, material assistance, health care, legal aid is strengthened, better representation for unaccompanied minors is provided, special needs are identified and the commission's role in monitoring implementation is simplified.
in writing. - i support the draft directive presented. it is a step forward towards an effectively functioning common european asylum system. it should be noted that the new regulation must be based on the principles of solidarity and fair sharing of responsibility, including the financial burden, between the member states. the same status and equal reception conditions for beneficiaries of international protection would apply throughout the eu. aid applicants must be subject to high standards of protection and fair and effective procedures. each member state should ensure the necessary level of material assistance, a high level of equal treatment and a standard of living that does not impair dignity. particular attention shall be paid to the implementation of the principles of the importance of the well-being of the child and the unity of the family.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the criteria and mechanisms for determining the member state responsible for examining an application for international protection lodged by a third-country national or a stateless person in one of the member states. this proposal aims to ensure stricter and more consistent requirements for the procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection, ensuring that the protection needs of third-country nationals or stateless persons are adequately addressed, in accordance with the international and eu obligations of the member states. the proposal lays down new european rules on asylum which will harmonise the asylum procedure, the time limits for processing applications, and the basic rights of asylum seekers, and will help to avoid crises. the proposal aims to increase the efficiency of decision-making and to encourage member states to provide reasoned first-instance decisions within a reasonable time. the separation of asylum seekers and other migrants when they arrive together would be accelerated and administrative resources better used. asylum staff will be able to better identify cases of unjustified and abusive requests, and member states should also be able to reduce their reception costs and remove asylum seekers who have not been granted asylum from their territory. real refugees will be able to benefit from their rights more quickly.
in writing. − i have agreed to this proposal because the common position is in line with the main objective of the commission's proposal. in particular, it shall improve the current standards of treatment of applicants under the dublin procedure. it guarantees the right to information and to an effective legal remedy when a transfer decision is taken, and lays down clear rules on detention and access to free legal aid. these issues are not addressed in the present document. it provides for a more predictable environment in relations between member states and more favourable conditions for the reunification of vulnerable persons, in particular unaccompanied minors, with family members or relatives.
in writing. - i agree with the council's position. applicants for international protection must be afforded the same protection in all member states. a full assessment of the needs of applicants for international protection is necessary. in particular, they must be guaranteed the right to information and effective legal protection. clear and strict rules on detention and access to free legal aid must be in place. attention should be paid to the fact that the development and implementation of the measures provided for in the proposal must not be contrary to the interests of the member states, the objectives and targets set out in the strategic documents and must not create an unreasonable burden on public finances. in addition, possible administrative and technical difficulties must be avoided.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on granting and withdrawing international protection. this proposal aims to ensure stricter and more consistent requirements for the procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection, ensuring that the protection needs of third-country nationals or stateless persons are adequately addressed, in accordance with the international and eu obligations of the member states. the proposal lays down new european rules on asylum which will harmonise the asylum procedure, the time limits for processing applications, and the basic rights of asylum seekers, and will help to avoid crises. the proposal aims to increase the efficiency of decision-making and to encourage member states to provide reasoned first-instance decisions within a reasonable time. the separation of asylum seekers and other migrants when they arrive together would be accelerated, thus rationalising the use of administrative resources. asylum staff will be able to better identify cases of unjustified and abusive requests, and member states should also be able to reduce their reception costs and remove asylum seekers who have not been granted asylum from their territory. real refugees will be able to benefit from their rights more quickly.
in writing. − i have supported this proposal as it seeks to ensure that stricter and more consistent requirements are imposed on the procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection, ensuring that the protection needs of third-country nationals or stateless persons are adequately addressed, in accordance with the member states' international and community obligations. the proposal aims to increase the efficiency and quality of decision-making by focusing on services, advice and expertise and encouraging member states to provide reasoned first-instance decisions within a reasonable timeframe. the measures envisaged are expected to increase the compatibility of eu asylum documents, to simplify, streamline and consolidate the relevant procedure throughout the european union, and to achieve a more reasoned first-instance decision, thereby preventing abuse and increasing the efficiency of the asylum process.
in writing. − to make the european union safe for refugees, the eu needs to increase the compatibility of asylum measures and facilitate access to asylum procedures. fair, strict and consistent requirements for procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection must be applied. it should be noted that national authorities play a crucial role in the reception of asylum seekers and in determining the material conditions for the reception of asylum seekers. in this context, member states should streamline their labour and administrative resources and adequately prevent abuse in the provision of housing, welfare, health and education services. on the other hand, the legal norms and measures adopted and implemented by the eu must be properly aligned with the interests of the member states and must not compromise the balance of human rights protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the fund for european aid to the most deprived. in the europe 2020 strategy, the european union set a target of reducing the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion by at least 20 million by 2020. however, poverty and social exclusion are increasing across the union as a result of the economic and financial crisis (almost 120 million europeans were at risk of poverty or social exclusion in 2011). the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the eu's support to the poorest europeans to at least eur 3.5 billion. particular attention shall be paid to support groups such as orphans, children and households with children and support measures for social inclusion. in addition, the fund should support not only food but also other means such as clothing, school supplies, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because poverty and social exclusion are not declining in the european union. even in the 21st century, poverty remains one of the greatest wounds of the european union. almost 120 million europeans are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. more than 40 million also suffer from severe material deprivation, the most severe of which is food shortages. unfortunately, children are more at risk of poverty and social exclusion than the rest of the population. their lack of material things is not limited to nutritional hazards. the committee on employment and social affairs has therefore proposed that support for people in need could be provided not only in the form of food but also in other forms of aid, such as clothing, shoes and educational equipment for children. almost six million children in the european union do not have new (unworn) clothes and almost five million do not have two pairs of shoes of the right size. moreover, children who suffer from such material deprivation are likely to do worse in school than their better-off peers, to suffer from poor health, and to be unable to reach their full potential as adults. in recognition of the importance of the fund for european aid to the most deprived for all europeans, i am very much looking forward to a swift agreement between member states and the continued success of this fund in providing support to europeans in need.
in writing. − in the europe 2020 strategy, the european union has set itself the target of reducing the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion by at least 20 million by 2020. however, the economic and financial crisis has led to an increase in poverty and social exclusion across the union. in 2011, almost 120 million europeans - an increase of six million in two years - were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, and now account for almost a quarter of the total population. more than 40 million are experiencing severe material deprivation. one in ten people under 60 lives in a household with low work intensity. one of the main signs of material deprivation is the inability to obtain sufficient food of adequate quality. 43 million europeans cannot afford to eat meat, chicken or fish (or vegetarian substitutes) every other day. the world health organisation (who) defines this need as one of the main ones. children are particularly sensitive to malnutrition and poor nutrition patterns can negatively affect brain development and learning ability and their future health. i agree with the need to create a new instrument to combat food shortages, while allocating part of its resources to material assistance for homeless people and/or children other than food, and to supporting measures for the reintegration of the social groups receiving assistance.
in writing. − the programme for food distribution to the poorest people in the union is currently one of the most effective ways of addressing food insecurity and providing the poorest with a decent life prospect. this programme is a way of moving towards social cohesion. i believe that this is an important symbol of european solidarity. however, it is important to ensure that the project is properly planned and financed in order to achieve its full effectiveness. i support the proposed amendments to ensure a more sustainable and transparent implementation of the project and the use of member states' funds.
in writing. − the number of people living in poverty is a sign of urgency. poverty and social exclusion are only increasing across the eu. meeting the basic needs of the poorest is becoming increasingly difficult. the eu faces wide-ranging and multifaceted challenges, which require more effective eu policy and funding. we cannot limit ourselves to the current european food aid programme for the most deprived, because homelessness, malnutrition and the material deprivation of families with children are interrelated. the fund for european aid to the most deprived is a major step forward in tackling the problems of material deprivation. only long-term, comprehensive assistance to the poorest will help overcome poverty and social exclusion. i believe that access to the fund should be granted to all member states without any reservations, because poverty has no borders and is spreading at an alarming rate. we must work together to ensure that the fund has sufficient financial resources to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion across the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the establishment of the eurodac system for fingerprinting. the eurodac system was established by regulation (ec) no 2725/2000 and the purpose of this proposal is to amend that regulation. the purpose of the exchange is to provide law enforcement authorities in the member states and europol with access to the eurodac central database for the purposes of preventing terrorist offences and other serious criminal offences. third-country organised crime networks use the asylum system to transfer members of the criminal network to eu member states and thus have contact persons for their criminal activities. once inside the eu, these network members apply for asylum by presenting forged identity documents in order to obtain legal residence in the eu without any trial. it is necessary to allow the authorities of the member states and europol to request the comparison of fingerprint data against the data collected in the eurodac database in the fight against terrorism and other serious crime, on a match-or-miss basis. i believe that giving law enforcement access to eurodac is a very important step in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. −third-country organised crime networks seek to use the asylum system to transfer members of the criminal network to eu member states and to have contact persons for their criminal activities. these members of the organised crime network, once they have entered the territory of an eu member state, seek asylum by presenting forged identity documents in order to obtain a legal right to reside in the eu without any criminal conviction. in addition, information provided by europol indicates that traffickers also seek to exploit the asylum system by misrepresenting the country of origin in their asylum applications. i welcome the possibility for the designated authorities of the member states and the european police office (europol) to request the comparison of fingerprint data on a match-or-miss basis with data collected in the eurodac database in the fight against terrorism and other serious crime. the granting of access to eurodac to law enforcement authorities is a major step towards preventing the above-mentioned cases, provided that the necessary safeguards are put in place. i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − i support this document because i believe that the effective functioning of the single european fingerprint identification system must be an integral part of the schengen system. the free movement of persons in the european union is also used by criminals, and borders must be removed to facilitate their tracing and identification.
in writing. − eurodac is of particular importance for ensuring the effectiveness of the european asylum system. the data contained therein are of particular importance to authorities fighting crime and terrorism. in this context, it is essential to ensure that the eurodac database is used more efficiently and reliably. the provision of access to this system to the law enforcement authorities of the member states and to europol will help those authorities to perform their functions more effectively, to respond appropriately and in a timely manner to potential threats and to prevent terrorist and other serious crimes. however, a high level of security must be maintained when granting access to eurodac. common requirements should be established and applied throughout the eu. in particular, data protection issues should be addressed and possible violations of fundamental human rights in this area prevented. there must be strict data protection and surveillance controls and access procedures to stored data throughout the eu. the data contained in the system would be used only in specific cases, in specific circumstances and under strict conditions.
in writing. − hundreds of thousands of individuals seek asylum within the eu every year and the european parliament is focused on improving the process by which these people can remain in the eu. eurodac is an important part of regulation within the system by collecting virtual fingerprints of those that seek asylum. by having an eu-wide fingerprint database, an asylum seeker’s fingerprints can be run in multiple member states to ensure that they have only applied once. i welcome this measure as this allows member states to separate those that would take advantage of the benefits available through asylum from that are truly looking to escape a terrible situation. a new provision is the access national law enforcement would have to the eurodac system in order to investigate a major crime or terrorism. while i support the idea of much higher levels of cross-border communication to prevent crime, i believe that there must be safeguards on personal privacy. i voted in favour of this report because eurodac can provide many benefits to those looking for lawful asylum in the eu and national law enforcement. however, the privacy safeguards outlined in the report must play an important role as well.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the proper functioning of the schengen system is based on trust and coordination between member states. as early as 2011, some ngos began to speak about the need to strengthen the schengen system and allow member states to temporarily reintroduce controls at their internal borders when there is a serious threat to public policy or internal security. in 2011, the european commission proposed to strengthen the schengen area in order to strengthen the eu-level assessment system for the application of the schengen rules by eu member states and to establish a procedure for taking decisions to temporarily reintroduce internal border controls in the event of a serious threat to public policy or internal security. i agree with the european parliament's position that the right to reintroduce internal border controls should be only exceptional and that decisions should be taken in accordance with clear guidelines and not for political reasons. the commission should, on the basis of the experience gained so far in the functioning of an area without internal border control, develop guidelines for the reintroduction of internal border control, both where this measure is necessary as a temporary response and where urgent action is necessary, in order to ensure the consistent implementation of the schengen rules. the guidelines should include clear indicators to facilitate the assessment of threats to public policy and internal security.
in writing. − the free movement of persons is one of the eu's core values and therefore internal border control should only be reintroduced in extreme cases where there is a serious threat to public policy or internal security. a mechanism must be in place at eu level to respond to the threats posed to the schengen area and to protect it adequately. the measures applied must be proportionate to the threat and must prevent any application of internal border controls for political reasons. moreover, the reintroduction of internal border controls must strike a balance between the powers of the member states and the commission, since such a decision restricts the free movement of persons. the maintenance of public policy and internal security is a responsibility of the member states. in the event of a threat to public policy or public security, the member state itself must have the power to take decisions to prevent that threat, including the reintroduction of internal border controls. the commission should be empowered to take part in the adoption of decisions on the reintroduction of border control at the internal borders of the eu and to deliver an opinion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the evaluation mechanism for the application of the schengen acquis to verify the draft establishment plan. the agreement will allow special inspection teams to visit different eu internal border areas without prior notification to check for illegal border checks. these teams will be composed of experts from the european commission, eu agencies and eu countries. it will also strengthen the ability of eu countries to return controls to the eu's internal borders. it will only be possible as an extreme measure of strictly limited scope and duration and monitored at eu level. it is important to note that eurobarometer surveys show that 62% of respondents believe that free movement is the best thing the eu has achieved in 50 years. the new evaluation mechanism removes the current double standards and both member states and candidate countries must be evaluated in the same way and under the same rules. i agree with the rapporteur that this new mechanism more european, more transparent, more efficient and more stringent is a significant step forward compared to the current situation.
in writing. − free movement is a distinctive principle of the european union and the ability to move within the european union without internal border controls is one of its greatest achievements. the abolition of internal border controls across the european union started in 1985. the entry into force of the schengen agreement has given over 400 million europeans the right to travel without passport controls. free movement is also of great economic importance, as it is the key to the success of the eu's single market and an important factor in the growth of the european economy. belonging to an area without internal border control means that these countries no longer carry out internal border checks and have reinforced external border controls. in november 2010, the commission presented a proposal to establish a legal framework for assessing the proper application of the schengen acquis. this evaluation mechanism will help to maintain mutual confidence between member states in each other's ability to apply effectively the additional measures allowing the area without internal borders to be maintained. this proposal also aims at a more effective evaluation mechanism of the schengen acquis, ensuring a transparent, efficient and consistent implementation of the schengen acquis.
in writing. − the proposal for a schengen evaluation mechanism is undoubtedly an important instrument for strengthening the governance of the schengen area. the evaluation system will help to ensure that member states comply with the provisions of the schengen acquis. a rigorous and effective evaluation mechanism will eliminate double standards and help to address issues of external border protection more effectively. undocumented checks and a stronger role for frontex and the commission in the evaluation process will prevent illegal checks at internal borders. however, there are doubts whether the new legal framework will maintain the appropriate level of mutual trust between member states and their important role in the evaluation process. i think we should seek an active role for the member states themselves in the process of evaluating the schengen acquis. in addition, provision should be made for certain safeguards for the application of appropriate exceptional measures when reintroducing controls at the internal borders of a member state.
in writing. − the ability to travel within the schengen area is considered one of the top benefits brought by the eu by many people; this right is not being challenged. however, recent events have shown that the internal regulations of the system are not as strong as they should be and challenge the delicate balance between security and free movement. the temporary reintroduction of internal borders is not to prevent migrants from coming to the eu but rather to be sure that no one member state acts unilaterally. i support the eu working together as a whole to acknowledge each member state’s interests while making sure the schengen area is secure. these new standards of internal movement will apply to both schengen states and schengen candidates, making the system far more unified. a balance can be found between member state’s need to react to unpredictable circumstances and collective-decision making. i voted in favour of this report because it will transform the schengen area from one based on agreements between governments to an area where all follow the same european standards.
in writing. - i agreed to this. the update of this directive, also known as the accountability directive, aims to reduce the administrative burden on small businesses. this is expected to save small and medium-sized enterprises eur 1,7 billion per year. the new provisions will simplify the procedure for drawing up financial statements, which should be clearer, more understandable and more comparable. this will allow users of the financial statements (shareholders, banks, etc.) to better understand the company's results and financial position.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to provide greater transparency for payments to public authorities and to ensure that users of financial statements in the european union can compare the financial position of companies by creating a single standardised balance sheet. it is worth noting that these commission proposals are similar to the us dodd-frank act adopted in july 2010 which requires companies in the extractive industries (oil, gas and mining) registered with the securities and exchange commission to publicly disclose information on payments to public authorities on a country-by-country and project-by-project basis. the proposal also builds on the existing voluntary extractive industry transparency initiative. greater transparency could improve governance, curb corruption, improve corporate accountability, while helping investors to make better informed decisions. the european parliament therefore stresses that comprehensive country-by-country reporting should be provided in all sectors, including pre-tax and after-tax profit information.
in writing. − i supported the proposal as the requirements for small enterprises (smes) need to be harmonised to a large extent across the union and disproportionate administrative burdens on these enterprises avoided. i also support the principle of 'thinking of the little ones first'. on 25 october 2011, the commission published a proposal to repeal and amend the accounting directives (78/660/eec and 83/349/eec), in particular with a view to reducing the administrative burden for small enterprises. both accounting directives have been in force for the past 30 years and contain all the rules necessary for the preparation of the statutory financial statements. as listed companies have been governed by the international accounting standard (ias) since 2005, smes have become the de facto main users of the accounting directives. the commission proposes to replace these two directives by a single directive that is better adapted to the needs of current and future financial reporting agents and users. on the basis of an impact assessment carried out in 2009-2011, the commission aims to reduce the administrative burden by 25% by 2012 and foresees that all undertakings falling within the scope of this directive could save eur 1,5 billion per year.
in writing. − the principle of 'thinking of the little ones first' should be the basis for the new legal regulation. the smallest undertakings may not be subject to a disproportionate burden. in this context, it is essential that the new legal framework is better adapted to the needs of current and future drafters and users of financial statements. the financial statements should present true and fair information about the financial position of the undertaking. in particular, the administrative burden and regulatory requirements for small enterprises should be reduced, given the scale of the activities and the limited resources available. these companies should be subject to the same financial reporting rules across the eu and should be able to opt out of certain obligations. this will make it easier for small businesses to take advantage of the market and to operate properly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this directive, which aims to further enhance investment protection and high level investor confidence by ensuring appropriate transparency for issuers and investors of securities throughout the european union. to that end, the transparency directive requires issuers of securities traded on a regulated market to publish periodic financial information on the issuer's performance during the financial year and on the current status of the controlling shares of voting rights. this directive also lays down minimum standards for access to and retention of regulated information. the provisions of this directive are closely linked to the requirements laid down in other eu legislation in the field of corporate governance (society law) or financial markets (securities). the amendments to the directive will aim to include as many smes as possible and to facilitate their access. improving the regulatory environment and access to capital for small and medium-sized issuers is an important priority that has been taken into account in the update of the provisions of the directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, as volatility in global financial markets increases, investors are increasingly demanding more information about companies' practices. it is clear that more and more companies are adopting corporate governance standards, including those related to transparency, alongside voluntary guidelines for multinational enterprises. it is important to note that companies are not currently required to disclose financial performance on a country-by-country basis. this uncertainty distorts markets, allows tax avoidance and prevents investors from being informed about the long-term sustainability of companies. for these reasons, it is proposed that both large and small companies active in the extractive and forestry sectors be listed on stock exchanges and report on a country-by-country basis. the proposal provides for greater transparency and a level playing field between companies operating exclusively in eu markets and those operating in third countries. it should be noted, however, that reporting requirements should not impose a disproportionate administrative burden on businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the proposal would make reporting requirements clearer and simpler.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal as it aims to ensure a high level of investor confidence by ensuring appropriate transparency for issuers and investors of securities throughout the european union. to that end, the transparency directive requires issuers of securities traded on a regulated market to publish periodic financial information on the issuer's performance during the financial year and on the current status of the controlling shares of voting rights. this directive also lays down minimum standards for access to and retention of regulated information.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. in particular, transparency requirements must be adapted to developments in financial markets. only by ensuring transparency will financial stability and market efficiency be improved for issuers and investors. a high level of investor protection must be maintained and an effective level of harmonisation of transparency requirements achieved across the eu. it is important to note that timely, accurate and complete disclosure of information on issuers of securities is essential to ensure long-term investor confidence in capital markets. capital markets must be made more attractive to smaller firms. in view of this, specific simplified transparency rules should apply to those undertakings. in addition, strict administrative sanctions and other preventive measures should be applied to achieve the long-term objectives. the penalties provided for in respect of infringements of the transparency requirements shall be effective, proportionate and dissuasive.
in writing. − a linear reduction in the amount of direct payments to farmers will help to ensure a level playing field. it is very important that the european council and the european parliament finally reach a compromise on the multiannual financial framework. only after a final agreement has been reached will it be possible to set a correction coefficient. it is worth noting that lithuanian farmers compete with farmers from other eu countries in the same production, labour and agricultural raw materials market and clearly lose this battle to former farmers from eu countries. it is worth noting that the eu is still a highly competitive market. lithuanian farmers receive direct payments well below the eu average and production costs are almost the same. moreover, the level of payments has in fact not reached the level of the eu-15 countries and therefore modulation and reduction of additional national payments should not apply to them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as it aims to amend the existing legislation on checks on persons crossing the border and to improve the integrated border management policy by improving the procedure for crossing external borders. the schengen borders code in force needs to be amended. it is essential to maintain the provision that the abolition of internal border controls between member states is closely linked to the need for effective control of the external borders of the schengen area, improved cooperation and mutual trust. the eu has also been a major contributor to the development of the eu's external borders, especially at a time of many unforeseen events (radical political changes in north africa) that have had a significant impact on migration flows into the eu. i also agree that, firstly, there is a need to improve the rules that facilitate, simplify and further develop free movement within the schengen area and, secondly, to support strict control and security arrangements at the external borders of the territory of the member states.
in writing. − this proposal amends the rules of the schengen borders code governing the movement of persons across borders and the convention implementing the schengen agreement. the schengen agreement of 14 june 1985 abolished systematic internal border controls between the countries belonging to the schengen area and ensures the free movement of persons within that area. in order to simplify and further develop free movement within the schengen area, it is necessary to strengthen effective control and security arrangements at the external borders of the territory of the member states. it is important to strengthen the effective fight against cross-border crime, the rapid response to crisis situations, a migration policy that contributes to economic growth, and to take into account the rights of persons entering or attempting to enter the schengen area. the consolidation of effective management of the eu's external borders will be one of the priorities of the lithuanian presidency.
in writing. - i agree with the position. the role of the eu's external borders is crucial. it is a control point for all movement of persons and goods entering or leaving them. the eu is an important trading partner and it is therefore essential to facilitate at the same time the free movement of persons and goods within the eu and the safe and rapid movement of persons and goods across the eu's external borders. it should be noted that effective protection of the eu's external borders will only be achieved through the proper implementation of an integrated border management policy, combined with a reinforced fight against smuggling and fraud. in this context, it is essential that the new legal framework not only guarantees the right to free movement, but also ensures adequate protection against potential threats. the eu must apply common standards and procedural rules for external border control and a strict control and security regime. the effective protection of the eu's external borders is one of the key objectives for safeguarding the eu's area of freedom, security and justice. to this end, it is essential to strengthen better cooperation and mutual trust.
in writing. − on the one hand, this decision reduces the number of members of the european parliament elected in my country of representation, lithuania, from 12 to 11. on the other hand, i understand that the number of meps must be reduced as the number of eu member states increases, so i think that the decision adopted is one of the best compromise proposals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this draft decision of the european council. a permanent system for the allocation of seats is necessary for the efficient and constructive work of the european parliament. first, the system must be clear, consistent and transparent. it must be based on the principle of diminishing proportionality. this principle must be the basis for the allocation of seats in parliament and must therefore be clearly and objectively defined so that the number of seats held by no member state is reduced disproportionately. we must ensure that the fundamental rights and interests of the citizens of each member state and the political trends are properly represented in the european parliament. a stable, effective system before each election will not only ensure the smooth functioning of parliament but also enhance the democratic legitimacy of the representation of the population.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the sovereign debt crisis that has hit europe and the euro area countries in particular has triggered a major economic downturn with negative social consequences in many member states, with increased unemployment, poverty and social exclusion. it could be argued that the crisis has, in particular, revealed the economic interdependence of the member states and their very different capacities to deal with labour market and social problems. it is therefore more important than ever to increase targeted and effective social investment to ensure economic stability, promote employment and raise the skills of the workforce, which in turn will improve the eu's competitiveness in the long term. for these reasons, i would encourage member states to consider signing a social investment pact, setting investment targets and creating a stronger control mechanism, in order to make more efforts to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. it is important to note that member states should not necessarily have more expenditure but should use the funds more efficiently and effectively in order to increase the sustainability of social investment policies. it is also welcome that the european commission is focusing on the european social fund as the main instrument to promote social investment, which requires that at least 25% of cohesion policy funds be allocated to the esf and that 20% of esf funds in each member state be allocated to promoting social inclusion and combating poverty.
in writing. − budgetary discipline in the euro area should be assessed not only in terms of fiscal and macroeconomic indicators, but also in terms of employment and social indicators, which should receive equal attention, and in terms of progress reports on structural reforms, in order to ensure an adequate level of social investment in the member states and thus ensure the long-term sustainability of the european union's social model. it is necessary to take into account the public investment needs of the member states, in particular those relating to the social and educational objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. i agree that it is necessary to define measures to speed up the implementation of the european youth guarantee, to develop a quality system for boarding schools and work placements, to provide efficient and accessible public services, to provide for a living wage, by establishing a national minimum income that would help to avoid working poverty. ensure social protection and the transferability of pension rights, access to affordable and adequate social housing. ensure minimum social protection to provide universal access to basic health services, irrespective of income; implement the social protocol to protect fundamental social and labour rights. to establish equal pay for men and women for work of equal value or value. implement the updated health and safety strategy.
in writing. − social investment is one of the means of tackling unemployment and other social problems in the eu. i would point out that one of the most important sources where this investment should be used is in youth unemployment and entrepreneurship programmes. youth unemployment (young people who have never worked) is a concern in the eu countries at the moment. i therefore call for the eu funds to be used as soon as possible to address this problem.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. differences within and between member states are increasing, and there is no adequate regulation to guarantee a minimum, adequate and sustainable level of social protection across the eu. in addition, the lack of social investment has exacerbated the difficulties caused by the crisis in many countries. cohesion policy is one of the key factors in achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion. it should be noted that the european social fund is the main instrument for promoting social investment, which is the basis for increasing the efficiency, effectiveness and efficiency of social protection systems. it is essential that more cohesion policy investment funding should be directed towards youth employment, social inclusion and the fight against poverty. member states must be able to make the best use of eu funds to mitigate the effects of the crisis and austerity policies. they should be encouraged to use innovative financing methods more frequently and to target the use of structural funds in areas that promote growth and job creation. in this context, it is essential that the revision of the multiannual financial framework leads to political agreement and increases in funding for the youth employment initiative. only by working together to strengthen independent and socially responsible business across the eu will we create much more value added, boost growth and ensure decent living conditions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because i believe that the instruments of cohesion policy should contribute to a more competitive european union and the europe 2020 strategy, helping the less developed regions to balance their development with that of the more developed regions. the aim is to help the less developed regions, to promote their development, to help areas with lower living standards or regions suffering from a lack of jobs.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution. many regions are still in the grip of the crisis and are experiencing severe economic difficulties, which requires maintaining the current aid intensity. it is also time to modernise the state aid system so that it can stimulate private investment in these regions and have a positive impact on employment. aid must be granted on the basis of clearer, simpler and more lenient principles. the internal market must remain strong, dynamic and competitive. it should be noted that state aid policy and regional policy are interdependent and contribute to the elimination of regional imbalances. regional policy is part of wider systems of state aid which help to reduce socioeconomic disparities between regions and development disparities within regions. only through the proper implementation of regional policy objectives and the provision of state aid can balanced, sustainable and long-term development of the regions be ensured.
in writing. - i voted for this report. competition policy is one of the key factors in an efficient and competitive market. competition policy should be more geared to facilitating the entry of new players and the emergence of new ideas and technologies on the market, rather than to strengthening already established firms or suppliers of services and goods. the adoption of a special state aid regime during the economic and financial crisis has been a matter of considerable concern and has helped to prevent further financial and economic instability. however, for the third year in a row, the european parliament has expressed its concern to the commission that this arrangement is no longer temporary and that these temporary measures should be terminated as a matter of urgency, as they already distort competition in the internal market. the report also highlights another problem of importance to all eu consumers - the rise in food prices, which started as far back as 2007, and i therefore support calls for the commission, together with the national competition authorities, to carry out a thorough investigation of competition in the agri-industrial sector, in particular the development of support, transparency and consumer prices along the entire value chain.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because competition policy is crucial to respond to the economic and financial crisis, to support the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, to support the single market and to make progress towards a banking union, a genuine economic and monetary union, greater integration and convergence. it is important to note that competition policy is one of the key aspects of the european social market economy. it is essential to align eu competition policy with all other eu policies, including sectoral regulation, to ensure that the internal market for products and services functions well from the point of view of citizens, the environment and businesses. emphasising that competition policy in a broader sense should not only strengthen established firms and suppliers of goods and services, but should also pursue the overarching objective of facilitating the entry of new players and the emergence of new ideas and technologies, thus maximising the benefits for the citizens of the european union. i believe that only by supporting and implementing competition policy effectively can we strengthen the single market, revive economic growth and make the european market more attractive on a global scale.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal, as a competition policy based on the principles of open markets and a level playing field in all sectors is part of the so-called genetic code of the eu and one of the fundamental aspects of the european social market economy, a tool for the benefit of european consumers in order to ensure a socially and economically sound internal market and to combat abuses by certain economic operators, and a key factor in ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market. the removal of barriers to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital is a crucial precondition for eu growth. protectionism will only deepen and prolong the crisis and strict compliance with competition rules is essential to revive the european economy. the annual competition policy report should be used not only as a description of the practical implementation of competition policy by the commission but also as a tool to help increase the overall competitiveness of the european union, develop competition and open markets to new entrants, thus expanding and strengthening the internal market.
in writing. − eu competition policy one of the oldest areas of eu activity. i would also like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the energy sector, which has been placed under the eu's competence following the lisbon treaty. the commission's investigation into the proper application of competition and antitrust rules in the gas sector sets an important precedent. i hope that the commission will take a responsible approach to this task and investigate in detail whether the monopoly of 'gazprom' is not in breach of eu competition rules.
in writing. − competition policy plays a crucial role in responding effectively to challenges in difficult times, especially in the context of the banking crisis. in order to maintain a level playing field and an open and dynamic market, it is essential to further improve the effectiveness of competition policy. in particular, competition policy must be aligned with all other eu policies. new entrants must be provided with favourable, non-discriminatory conditions for entering the market. only fair competition between market participants promotes innovation, efficiency and freedom of choice. each of us needs to feel the real benefits. the level of consumer welfare and protection must be continuously improved. the principles and rules of competition must ensure the accessibility, simplicity and flexibility of services of general economic interest and of general social interest. in addition, strict competition policy measures must prevent speculation on food markets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on democratic decision-making in the future economic and monetary union (emu). the aim is to strengthen coordination of economic policy reforms at eu level in accordance with the community method and in line with the instruments of the european semester for the coordination of economic policies. i believe that any further initiative for a strong ems based on stability, sustainable growth, solidarity and democracy would be implemented in accordance with the community method. when new competences are transferred to or created at union level, or new union institutions are established, it is necessary to ensure an appropriate level of democratic control and accountability of parliament. the delay in the establishment of a banking union is a cause for concern. i agree that a strong and ambitious banking union is a key component of a deeper ems and that it is therefore essential to establish it as soon as possible.
in writing. − european monetary union should not divide the eu. through compromise and joint agreements, we must promote deeper integration and stronger governance, creating favourable conditions for non-euro area member states to apply it voluntarily. the problem of the 'democratic deficit' must be addressed and the role of national parliaments strengthened. a democratic and effective decision-making process must be ensured. only a strong and effective epc based on stability, sustainable growth, solidarity and democracy. moreover, in order to ensure a sound basis for the euro area economy, greater attention must be paid to the banking union. only an effectively functioning institutional framework will prevent bank misuse and ensure a high level of consumer protection. it should be noted that the delay in establishing the banking union only exacerbates the existing problems and is a major step backwards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on eu action to combat youth unemployment. currently, about 23% of young people in the eu are unemployed. the european council recognised that youth employment is important for europe's well-being and i therefore support the calls for the eeas and the commission to make greater efforts to combat unemployment. the commission should compile a summary of the results of the common social investment indicators on youth unemployment, including an alert mechanism to monitor progress in the member states. it is important to remove barriers to cross-border placements in order to ensure better opportunities for young people to learn in a supply-and-demand environment and to encourage voluntary mobility of young people. the commission should make recommendations on whether to establish a uniform level of unemployment benefit in the eu in the light of the previous unemployment wage. i support the calls for the implementation of the youth guarantee in all member states, the establishment of clear objectives and indicators for the youth guarantee so that the impact of the youth guarantee can be effectively measured and evaluated. the new youth employment initiative is budgeted at eur 6 billion, but its implementation costs in the euro area will reach eur 21 billion, and therefore calls for an increase in the funding for the initiative in the context of the review of the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because measures must be taken at both national and eu level to reduce youth unemployment. almost eight million young people in the european union are neither in employment nor in education - a worrying statistic. behind the ever-increasing numbers, however, are the tragedies of young people's lives. for too long, some people are poor, lose confidence in themselves and their countries, others become depressed or turn to crime, others emigrate, leave europe, even though we are the fastest-aging continent and we need young people to survive. the european parliament therefore calls on the member states to take decisive action to combat youth unemployment at the european council on 27 and 28 june. in particular, by taking action to avoid the failure of school or vocational training and industrial placement programmes (e.g. by introducing a dual education system or other equally effective systems) and by developing comprehensive strategies for young people who are not in employment, education or training. at eu level, we call on the commission and the member states to set clear objectives and indicators for the youth guarantee so that the impact of the initiative can be effectively measured and evaluated. the european parliament stresses that it will closely monitor the actions taken by the member states to ensure the success of the youth guarantee and calls on youth organisations to provide the european parliament with the results of the evaluation of the actions of the member states on a regular basis.
in writing. − youth unemployment across the eu continues to grow uncontrollably. the initiatives implemented do not bring real benefits, and some crisis-management measures have exacerbated the problem to a great extent. i think it is time to identify the real causes of youth unemployment. the increase in the number of insolvencies and bankruptcies is hampering job creation and economic growth. on the other hand, the commission's efforts to encourage mass migration are simply a way of evading responsibility for financial and social failure, while geographical movements are tacitly encouraging mass migration from member states in greater difficulty to more stable ones. in view of the continuing deterioration of the situation, we must realise that without a strong industrial network, social welfare and stability will not be restored throughout the union. it is a cornerstone of economic growth, creating high-quality jobs for millions of young people. the difficulties faced by young people in the labour market should be addressed by providing better opportunities for learning in the context of supply and demand. vocational guidance and training should be reviewed in the light of market needs, and entrepreneurship of young people should be promoted, providing real support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because of the deadlock in the review of regulation (ec) no 1049/2001. regulation no 1049/2001 is a key piece of legislation providing for appropriate means of monitoring the actions of the european union, but its application needs to be improved. the revision of the regulation should provide greater access to eu documents for citizens of the european union. i support the calls for the council to resume the debate on the regulation without delay, adopt its position and continue the negotiations. i support the proposals to extend the scope of the regulation to all eu institutions, bodies and agencies, to ensure greater transparency in the legislative field, including access to legal opinions during the legislative procedure, and to clarify the link between transparency and data protection. it is necessary to ensure adequate access to documents relating to international negotiations and agreements and financial transparency in the use of eu funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because transparency is an essential tool for citizens to participate in the decision-making process of the european union, to monitor this process and, in general, to ensure that all eu action is accountable. it is worth noting that regulation no 1049/2001 is a fundamental legal act in the eyes of eu citizens and eu society , providing for appropriate means of monitoring the actions of the european union. failure to reach agreement on a new version of regulation no 1049/2001 would send the wrong signal about the nature of the eu to its citizens. for this and other reasons of no less importance, all eu institutions should give priority to the revision of regulation no 1049/2001 and encourage all eu institutions to cooperate in order to find a solution to the situation as soon as possible.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. we must finally find a compromise and break out of this deadlock. transparency and trust are the cornerstones of a good decision-making process. greater transparency must be a common goal for all of us. it is the foundation of democracy and the main way to bring citizens closer to the eu and to restore trust in the european union. in this context, it is necessary to ensure greater transparency in the field of legislation and to provide adequate conditions for the exercise of the right of access to information and documents. the people have a right to know what europe is doing. they must be given access to information on how and why decisions are taken or eu funds are used. political institutions cannot function if they are not trusted by the public. moreover, without transparency, legality will not be guaranteed.
the rapporteur. − i will speak about another document on the european union guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief. i am pleased that the vote in the committee on foreign affairs on our draft recommendations adopted all the compromise amendments and additions, i.e. that all the political groups were able to agree on the most important points. i regret that the vote on the individual provisions of the draft recommendation did not result in agreement and that some of my colleagues from the political groups voted against the whole document. i would like to highlight a few points in this discussion, hoping that this will serve to bring about a better mutual understanding and agreement on the matter under discussion. i would like to recall, first of all, that back in 2010 and 2011, when the european parliament adopted its annual report on the situation of human rights in the world, it called on the other institutions of the european union, and in particular the council of the eu, to adopt a wide-ranging set of measures aimed at promoting the right to freedom of religion or belief in the context of the eu's external policy. the european parliament welcomed the commitment of the european union to develop guidelines on freedom of religion or belief, based on the eu action plan on human rights and democracy, and stressed the need for the european parliament and civil society organisations to be involved in the development of these guidelines. what prompted the european union and the european parliament to act? first, the recognition that the promotion of the right to freedom of religion or belief and the prevention of violations of that right must be a priority of the european union's external policy. secondly, there is a continuing pattern of violence, persecution and discrimination against religious communities and against people with minority or non-religious beliefs in many parts of the world. the lack of religious tolerance, of readiness for inter-religious dialogue and of ecumenical coexistence often leads to political unrest, which leads to violence and open armed conflicts that endanger human lives and undermine regional stability. our guidelines and recommendations aim to promote and protect freedom of religion or belief in third countries, to integrate freedom of religion or belief into all eu external action and human rights policy, and to develop clear guidelines, criteria, standards and practical guidance to enhance the promotion of freedom of religion or belief in the work of officials from the institutions of the european union and the member states. in this way, we aim to ensure greater coherence, effectiveness and visibility of the european union's external policy. we emphasise in our recommendations a number of important aspects that need to be clearly and unambiguously enshrined in the guidelines in order to avoid their excessive free interpretation and to ensure effective implementation of the guidelines, including proportionality, freedom of expression, the collective aspect of freedom of religion or belief, registration requirements, family and social law and many others. i must say that some of them have received mixed reviews in the political groups of the european parliament. some colleagues feel that our recommendations generally talk too much about religion or faith. but, ladies and gentlemen, that is precisely what the whole document is about: the promotion and defence of freedom of religion or belief, the right to exercise this universal and fundamental human right. and that's why we're talking about this freedom, about its place in the context of other freedoms, about finding the right balance between principles like freedom of religion and freedom of expression.
mr president, here in parliament where we are expected to voice the stand of the entire union, we often appear in a shaky position because of the political vocabulary we use. the same words – democracy, law, judiciary etc. – contain and express a range of meanings. law in a democracy and law in a dictatorship, or authoritarianism, are totally different things. they should not, therefore, be referred to in the same terms. who will dare to speak, in brussels or in ekaterinberg, about the full spectrum of russia’s undemocratic and oppressive laws – including laws that close down media outlets – and to call them not simply ‘laws’ but, putting it politely, ‘authoritarian laws’? when we are calling for or issuing directives about the rule of law, in relation to some new or mutant dictatorship, the request should refer to the rule of ‘non-authoritarian law’. i do not need to remind you of the variety of bloody regimes calling themselves, or defining themselves as, democracies – ranging right through to the democracy of cannibals. courts, when they are the merely procedural chambers for shaping punishments, in line with phone calls from the highest levels of the executive, should be referred to on paper not as ‘courts’ but rather as ‘specialised chambers of execution’. despite our talk of democracy as an international principle, a more appropriate way to describe such illegal institutions would be as courts of skull-hunters, torturing their victims with endlessly renewed or additional charges.
the rapporteur. − thank you to all the colleagues who have spoken in this debate on the report on the european union guidelines on freedom of religion or belief. i am sorry that for serious reasons i have not been able to be in this chamber all the time, but i would like to make a few more general remarks. some colleagues spoke about the right to refuse to act on grounds of religious belief and how it was reflected in our draft recommendations. it includes the right of a person to a clearly defined refusal to act on the grounds of personal, religious convictions, when this is relevant to other morally sensitive matters. i would remind you that the european council, in its resolution of 24 april this year, called on the member states to guarantee the right to a strict refusal of action on grounds of internal convictions, moral convictions or ethical considerations, for example in matters of military service, as well as in matters of health care and education. the draft recommendations are therefore fully in line with the position of the council of europe. this is all the more so since it is emphasised that the right to refuse to act on the basis of such convictions must be strictly and clearly defined, thus preventing excessive freedom of interpretation, discrimination and abuse of this right. another important aspect is education and training. our aim is to draw attention to the fact that, as established by internationally recognised standards, a child's parents or legal guardians are free to ensure that their child receives religious education in accordance with their religious or moral convictions. this provision is also enshrined in the united nations declaration on the elimination of all forms of intolerance and of discrimination based on religion or belief.
in writing. under international law, all states are obliged to ensure that citizens are effectively protected against persecution on account of their religion or belief. this discrimination still exists in all regions of the world. of particular concern are the violence and legal restrictions that are imposed on christian congregations. the communication underlines the need for the european union to condemn all forms of violence and discrimination in the field of religion or belief. the communication also encourages the strengthening of the legal protection of believers in third countries. the focus is on the promotion of greater religious freedom and respect for personal beliefs in the work of the institutions of the european union and the member states. unfortunately, this record is not fully respected even in the european parliament, and its members are experiencing this. examples of this phenomenon are two written statements i made concerning the protection of life and family values in europe, which were not even registered. the reason given was my articulated calls for the protection of life from conception to natural death, which arose out of my worldview. thus, the ep secretariat not only violated the freedom of speech and the independence of the activities of meps, but also applied censorship to the right to freedom of belief and expression. the report recommends that respect for religious beliefs be required of certain mep bureaucrats. i sincerely hope that my aforementioned written statement will be registered for the third time.
in writing. first of all, i am pleased to see a positive assessment of the achievement of the millennium development goals: the global target of halving extreme poverty by 2015, significant improvements in access to drinking water, an increase in school-age children and progress in reducing child and maternal mortality. with a view to the future post-2015 development agenda, i support the emphasis on the importance of supporting public health and ensuring decent work opportunities. full and productive employment and decent work should be set as the main objective of the post-2015 agenda. we must also support the objective of well-designed national minimum social protection systems in developing countries, as this is a crucial backbone in the fight against poverty and in building social resilience to poverty. we need to integrate the sdgs into the programme, in other words, taking care of vulnerable groups - women, children, the elderly and the disabled - and tackling the structural causes of poverty. because social inequality hinders economic development, increases crime rates, and fuels conflict within society. i also agree that the preparation and implementation of the post-2015 world development agenda should aim at ensuring respect for the principles of democratic governance and respect for human rights, and that the future agenda should clearly reflect a commitment to democratic governance that is respected.
rapporteur. − mr president, just to clarify a formulation in this paragraph, i propose to add one word: ‘religious’. the text will now read as follows: ‘the right of parents to educate their children according to their religious or non-religious convictions includes their right to deny any undue interference by state or non-state actors in their religious education opposed to their religious or non-religious convictions’.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the ec-central africa interim economic partnership agreement, as the interim economic partnership agreement (epa) is an intermediate step towards closer regional integration towards a comprehensive regional agreement covering the whole of the central african region. it is also important to emphasise that the eu is cameroon's most important trading partner (44% of its trade in 2011) and that cameroon is the eu's most important trading partner in central africa. i agree with the rapporteur that the ems is an important indicator of the importance of trade links with the whole of the central african region. the main objectives of the agreement are to promote regional integration, economic cooperation and good governance in the central african region and to support its progressive integration into the world economy through accompanying development cooperation instruments. we believe that the vision of a continental free trade area can only be realised if the african regional group continues to integrate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as the european union is renewing its political commitments to central africa and is working to create a regional agreement for both countries, taking into account the diversity of the region and its different development patterns. the commission has also received comments from the applicant, which has not provided any evidence to support its claim that the measure is compatible with the internal market. however, despite comparing different economies and growing service sectors, these countries are still exporting goods, so managing infrastructure and business environment is very important in order to achieve sustainable economic growth. it should be noted that, despite the long tradition of regional integration, the creation of a relatively large, effective regional interregional trade, energy and transport network is an important priority. therefore, the inter-regional agreements between the es and certain african centres could become a catalyst for long-term benefits resulting from the smooth integration of the african centres, which would be important for trade relations with all african centres in the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as it is of the utmost importance to further develop the acp (african, caribbean and pacific) partnership with the european union by maintaining both the political and institutional aspects of the agreement. the european union acts in the international arena to promote regional integration. in particular, it contributes to the strengthening of local authorities, non-state actors and national parliaments of the acp states in the process of democratic reform and to their active participation in dialogue, monitoring and monitoring the cotonou agreement. be abejonės turi būti didinamas tapusavio atskait atskaitybės pobūdis, politikos suderinamumas, a es vystymosi partneriai raginami coordinate their programmes and are coordinated with the countries' strategic partners. it should be noted that the agreement does not reflect all the values of the european union, but in view of the akr citizenship and social protection of certain provisions of the agreement, this agreement should be mutually beneficial.
i voted for this document because we all recognise that freedom of the press is an important issue and must be guaranteed in all countries of the world. these freedoms and the expression of ideas can be restricted in various ways. unfortunately, it also often depends on external actions, such as, say, a digital attack. this is the kind of attack that was recently launched on the largest internet portals in lithuania, my country. those attacks were organised from third countries, in relation to which certain texts were published which may have caused offence in third countries. these attacks are specifically tied to the content of specific news stories. i therefore believe that the european commission should pay more attention to digital security as one of the factors that safeguards press freedom. we should also talk more about creating a common framework for responding to digital attacks so that the same freedom of expression is guaranteed across the european union and the world.
in writing. − i was disappointed by this report, as especially in the past the freedom of expression and freedom of the press, as well as the freedom of the media and journalists worldwide, was threatened. be abejonės, žurnalistai yra žmogaus teisių gynėjai, teisės į pažiūrų ir tikėjimo laisvę skatintojai, kurie dažnai yra persekutēti ir įkalinami. (be careful, journalists are human rights defenders, whose rights are often violated and who are often persecuted and killed.) therefore, i think that we need to have our own policies and programmes that promote freedom of speech and media freedom around the world. it should be noted that the law on media freedom ensures the protection of the rights of the public, in particular the rights of the government, but the government also has the right to defend the rights of the public in the cases described below, and to lodge complaints with the judicial authorities if appropriate legal information is required. of course, the free, independent and pluralistic internet and the mainstream media are the only democratic and pluralistic foundations, and it is therefore of the utmost importance to ensure freedom of movement worldwide. the european union should set an example by ensuring that the media continue to be independent, pluralistic and diverse, and by protecting journalists and journalists' rights, freedom and security. the european commission, in particular the directorate-general for development and cooperation (devco) and the european external action service (eeas) should therefore manage their cooperation and programme coordination, in particular by ensuring the coordination of police and diplomatic activities, the use of funds and the implementation of projects, including joint monitoring and evaluation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu needs a sound financial sector to revive the economy. in order to improve the efficiency and resilience of the financial markets in the european union as quickly as possible, it is necessary to urgently adopt the outstanding proposals of the european commission on financial services and to work towards the establishment of a common bank resolution mechanism. it is important to note that the european parliament, in its resolution on shadow banking, called for additional measures on money market funds, in particular to improve their resilience and cover liquidity risks. the council should therefore resume negotiations on deposit guarantee schemes, as this issue is of particular importance and concerns the direct interests of citizens of the european union, and is also important for confidence in the financial system and its stability. it is envisaged that, once an effective resolution system and an effective single supervisory mechanism are in place, the long-term objective could be to establish a single european deposit guarantee fund, backed by adequate funding, thus enhancing credibility and investor confidence. i believe that the council and the member states need more capacity and determination to implement the agreements which could lead to the creation of a banking union.
in writing. − on the morning of 31 may 2013, turkish police used disproportionate force to disperse a group of protesters protesting against construction in istanbul's gezi park, killing four people and injuring over a thousand. the right to freedom of expression, the right to freedom of legitimate assembly and the right to peaceful protest are integral to a democratic state. the position of the turkish leadership at this stage is particularly important in terms of its ability to adopt a moderate, compromise and reconciliatory stance, to take into account the demands of a part of the public, to properly investigate and prosecute the officials responsible for the use of excessive force and the injury and death of people. closer contact with the public, for example through consultations on community and urban projects, would help to avoid similar incidents in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to ensure better coordination and good governance of development issues at international level in order to enable the eu to be united and visible. the european external action service (eeas) established for this purpose is a new service based on community and intergovernmental resources, unparalleled in the eu, and cannot therefore be expected to operate at full capacity two years after its establishment. despite the significant progress made in establishing the eeas, the adoption and implementation of operational decisions on the common security and defence policy is seen as an excessively slow process, in many cases for structural and procedural reasons. the eeas's capabilities should therefore be developed, and previous operational experience analysed and learnt, in particular on conflict prevention, conflict mediation, crisis management, reconciliation and peace-building. in the light of these comments, it is appropriate to simplify the governance structure of the eeas and to strengthen the role of the executive secretary-general by establishing a clear chain of command to help to improve decision-making efficiency and timely political response.
in writing. − the eeas assists the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy in ensuring the coherence of the union's external action in the various fields, the unity, consistency and effectiveness of the eu's external action, and is involved in the protection of the rights of eu citizens in third countries. the eeas started its operations in 2011. building on two years of experience of the work of the eeas, the european parliament makes recommendations to strengthen the flexibility of the service, its rapid response to crises, to enable rapid reallocation of resources, efficient management of funds and other aspects that strengthen the functioning and organisation of the eeas.
in writing. − i thank all my colleagues who voted in favour of this resolution on the ep recommendations to the eu council on eu guidelines for the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief. in many parts of the world, violence against religious communities and people who belong to minorities or who have no religious beliefs continues. the persecution and discrimination of these persons, religious tolerance, openness to inter-religious dialogue and ecumenical coexistence often lead to political unrest in the world, leading to violence and open armed conflicts that endanger human lives and undermine regional stability in the long term. the aim and scope of the ep's recommendations is to promote and protect freedom of religion or belief in third countries, to integrate freedom of religion or belief into the eu's foreign policy, all eu external action and human rights policy, and to develop clear guidelines, criteria, standards and practical guidance to help promote freedom of religion or belief in the organisation of the work of eu institutions and officials in the member states, thereby helping to ensure greater coherence, effectiveness and visibility of the eu's external relations. i would stress that the european parliament's recommendations are an important input in the drafting of the european union guidelines.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as the right to freedom of religion, including religious, secular and atheistic beliefs, is the fundamental right of every human being. be abejonės, teisės į religios ar tikėjimo laisvę skatinimas ir su ja related infringements prevention turi būti es išorės politikos prioritas. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the prevention of pollution. however, in many countries of the world, there is no persecution of persons belonging to religious communities or of non-religious beliefs held by people. of course, these people are persecuted and discriminated against, often by the police, because of the burdens and open conflicts that threaten human lives and regional stability. the european union should therefore clearly and explicitly combat all forms of discrimination, and this should be the main es policy in the area of religion and belief.
in writing. − the european union brings together a multitude of different cultures. freedom of expression is the key to keeping us united and authoritative on a global level. we must continue to promote religious freedom reduce violence, discrimination and pressure on religious grounds. we need to ensure closer cultural links, thereby increasing mutual understanding and solidarity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the role of the eu in promoting a wider transatlantic partnership. the most important political and economic relationship across the atlantic is that between the eu and the us. the transatlantic partnership is thus based on strong political, cultural, economic and historical links, shared values and common objectives (welfare, an open and integrated economy, sustainable development, etc.). i agree with the rapporteur that a transatlantic policy council (tpc) should be established as a permanent body for consultation on foreign and security policy and for the coordination of this policy. i also stress that the adoption of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership will open the way to the creation of a broad economic area encompassing north america, the european union and many latin american countries with which the partners have concluded economic agreements. we, the members of the european parliament, call on the eu and the us to work in coordination to ensure the stable maintenance of international peace and cooperation between them.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as the european union and the usa, despite economic crises, should continue to play a major constructive role in the world of politics and economics, shaping the international environment. it also seeks to address regional conflicts and global problems on a multilateral basis, in particular through international organisations. the eu and japan should continue to promote stable international trade and cooperation agreements based on the principle of multilateralism, including the emerging market economies. however, the atlantic is a very promising region, and there are other problems and conflicts that are very important to be solved by joint and coordinated action. for these reasons, coordination should be ensured between the es policies and the administration, so as to enable the es to be consistently and effectively implemented internationally.
in writing. − the transatlantic partnership is one of the main pillars of global security, but its potential, including its economic potential, has not yet been fully exploited. there is still a lot of scope for closer cooperation, both in terms of regional and global challenges and in terms of boosting domestic economic growth. strengthening and deepening this partnership benefits all partners, building on the existing strong links and common objectives, and based on shared values such as the principles of freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the military coup in mali in march 2012, the occupation of the north of the country by armed rebel groups and the subsequent armed attacks have had repercussions not only in mali but also far beyond the region, in africa and europe. it is important to note that prior to the current crisis, mali suffered from social and economic disparities between the northern and southern parts, as well as weak democratic institutions, poor governance, corruption and organised crime. for these reasons, i would urge the implementation of an action plan to strengthen the transition process until democratic, free, fair and transparent elections are held throughout the country in 2013 and the constitutional order and the rule of law are restored. only then, after a political solution has been found for mali's reconstruction, will a clear and sustainable economic development strategy be developed to address unemployment and thus improve the living conditions of the population. in other words, institutional reforms are needed to ensure political stability and to enable the entire malian community to participate in shaping the future of the country. the european union, with its political and financial influence, should contribute to the solution of political, economic and military problems not only in mali but also in cooperation with other regional partners.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the european union has supported the reconstruction and development of afghanistan since 2002 and because it continues to seek a peaceful transition in afghanistan, its inclusive and sustainable development and stability and security for the whole region. it is important to note that progress has been made in afghanistan over the past decade, but concerns remain about the security situation and the continuing violence in afghanistan, which threatens the local population, including women, children, national security forces and international military and civilian personnel. another painful aspect of this situation is that the fight against drugs has so far not produced satisfactory results: more than 90% of the heroin entering europe is produced in afghanistan. for these reasons, the european union and the member states should increase their efforts to support the strengthening of the military and civilian capabilities of the government of afghanistan and its national security forces, in order to ensure stability and security, which are the key pillars of social and economic development. the peaceful future of afghanistan will be ensured only by the establishment of a stable, secure and economically viable state, free from terrorism and drugs, and based on strong democratic institutions, the principle of the separation of powers, a robust parliament and the safeguarding of fundamental rights.
in writing. − significant progress has been made in implementing the imp: the target of halving extreme poverty, the target of halving the number of people without adequate access to better quality drinking water and the improvement of the living conditions of more than 200 million people in deprived areas have been achieved. progress has been made in reducing infant and maternal mortality. progress has also been made towards the goal of increasing access to primary education. overall, the achievement of the mdgs has produced positive results at the political level and has provided a basis for focusing political action and public opinion on development issues. yet, people around the world continue to suffer from poverty, hunger, inequality, and insecurity. this year, the un will review the progress of the current ilo and begin preparations for the post-2015 development agenda. the eu must play a full part in this debate, with a coordinated position on the follow-up to the rio+20 conference and on the preparatory process for the special event on ict in september. the commission is preparing a communication to contribute to the follow-up to the rio+20 conference, the ict review and the post-2015 development agenda. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which is intended to highlight some of the main provisions and principles which should be taken into account in the preparation of the future comprehensive programme.
in writing. − while we have made great progress in reducing the number of people living in poverty in europe and the world, the ultimate goal has not yet been reached. hundreds of millions of people are still suffering from hunger and unemployment. there is no one way to solve this problem. it is linked to a host of other problem areas, such as climate change, migration, corruption, unsustainable growth and others. only by addressing all these nuances can we expect a fundamental change in the fight against poverty.
blue-card question. – a question arises, if we look seriously when we are having such a debate, why the title has not been corrected from ‘rule of law in russia’ – as that does not exist – to ‘rule of authoritarian law’. that is the reality, or rather the rule of the kremlin, imposed by order of the ruler.
in writing. i would like to congratulate ireland on the successful completion of its presidency of the european union and on the agreement on the multiannual financial perspective 2014-2020. in its presidency programme, ireland sought to take real and tangible decisions that would have a direct impact on job creation and economic recovery and growth. i think we've accomplished quite a bit. the irish presidency has found a compromise in tackling unemployment alone, with 80 pieces of legislation laying down short- and long-term measures to combat unemployment. the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european union strategy on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, which was published in the official journal of the european union on 14 march. the irish presidency agreed on a single banking supervisory mechanism, a capital requirements directive, two economic governance package and ensured an effective european semester. these decisions will make for a stronger, more stable and more reliable eu in the near future.
in writing. i am pleased that ireland, before the end of its presidency of the european council, has been able to propose to the european parliament the essential compromises that will finally allow the main political forces in parliament to approve the financing programme for the period 2014-2020. one of the most discussed and worrying areas in our european parliament was, as you know, eu funding for the recently created european youth guarantee, which will become one of the main instruments in the fight against the still record-breaking youth unemployment in some countries. we fear that the current budget for the youth guarantee will only last for the next two years and that eu funding will be difficult to obtain later if needed. i am pleased that the possibility will now be provided to extend funding for this important measure beyond 2016. the future multiannual eu budget will also be more efficient, transparent and consistent, and will henceforth impose stricter requirements for the implementation of the eu's financial commitments. but most importantly, we will now have more and more consistent funding for education, research and support for the poorest people. this will not only enable investment in these areas that are crucial to the eu's competitiveness and employment, but will also allow the european union to look after its citizens who have been hit hardest by the crisis.
in writing. - i abstained in the vote on this proposal. reason for submission and substance of the proposal to provide for a new method of adjustment of wages and pensions, including the application of a method clause and a special fee. this proposal was made in the context of the financial crisis in europe. i would point out that overly austere austerity measures do not always produce a positive result. i would disagree with the view that it is necessary to reduce the number of employees by 5%. the positive aspect is that the number of employees must be reduced by 2018. i think the commission is wrong to say that this should apply automatically to all institutions and i am convinced that more tailored solutions are needed. the commission is also concerned about the increase in the retirement age, which it believes reflects current demographic trends across the eu. another aspect is the attempt to limit the career opportunities of ats staff. i think that the measures under consideration should be more deliberate and discussed and adapted to the real situation.
in writing. − the staff regulations of eu officials and the conditions of employment of other servants must ensure that all eu institutions and their staff work efficiently and economically. it is essential that the new legal framework maintains a balance between greater efficiency, savings and the ability of the institutions to implement their policies. i'm not in favour of the proposal to extend the retirement age. mechanical raising of the retirement age will have very negative and painful consequences. this will not lead to a better quality of life but will reduce the employment guarantee, especially for young people. it is important to note that the economy will not be saved at the expense of the quality of human life. forcing people to work longer hours is not the best way to save money or solve social problems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft council decision and in favour of opening the possibility for the contracting parties to the vienna convention to accede to the 1997 protocol. international nuclear liability is governed by two instruments: the vienna convention and the 1960 paris convention on third party liability in the field of nuclear energy. the two conventions set out similar basic principles. the vienna convention was adopted to provide adequate and fair compensation for the victims of nuclear accidents and it establishes a specific civil liability regime in the field of nuclear energy. in order to address the remaining differences between member states regarding the rules on the recognition and enforcement of judgments in the field of nuclear damage, the commission undertook to consider how the future proposal could address the issue of the priority of union rules in the member states that ratified the 1997 protocol before its accession to the european union, namely latvia and romania, and in the member states that are parties to the paris convention. the council therefore proposes to authorise the member states which are contracting parties to the vienna convention, namely bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, lithuania, poland, slovakia and hungary, to ratify or accede to the 1997 protocol. a similar solution was proposed for the 2004 protocol amending the paris convention.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to establish a civil liability system in the field of nuclear energy and to provide for compensation for the victims of nuclear accidents. it is important to note that the provisions of the protocol adopted by the international atomic energy agency on 12 september 1997 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments affect the provisions of eu law, in particular the brussels i regulation. the european union shall have exclusive competence over the provisions of this protocol and member states may not become contracting parties to this protocol in respect of these provisions. in order to address the remaining differences between member states, the european commission has committed itself to consider how the issue of the priority of eu rules in the member states that ratified the 1997 protocol before joining the european union, namely latvia and romania, and in the member states that are parties to the paris convention, could be addressed in a future proposal. the council therefore proposes to authorise the member states which are contracting parties to the vienna convention, namely bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, lithuania, poland, slovakia and hungary, to ratify or accede to the 1997 protocol. a similar solution was proposed for the 2004 protocol amending the paris convention.
in writing. - i voted for this document. international nuclear liability is governed by two instruments: the vienna convention and the 1960 paris convention on third party liability in the field of nuclear energy. the two conventions share similar basic principles: the first was adopted to compensate victims of nuclear accidents, thus providing for specific civil liability. in order to eliminate the remaining differences between member states in the rules on the recognition and enforcement of judgments in the field of nuclear damage, the commission undertook to consider and make proposals for the formulation of the primacy of eu law in the individual member states. the council proposes to authorise the member states which are contracting parties to the vienna convention, namely bulgaria, the czech republic, estonia, lithuania, poland, slovakia and hungary, to ratify or accede to the 1997 protocol. the proposal for a council decision provides that the united kingdom and ireland are to be bound by and subject to this decision if they participate in its adoption, in accordance with protocol 21 annexed to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and that denmark is not bound by it if it does not participate. i therefore supported the rapporteur's recommendation to endorse the council decision.
in writing. - i support the draft council decision submitted. the eu must apply uniform rules on nuclear liability. the victims of nuclear accidents must be adequately and fairly compensated. it should be noted that the recognition and enforcement of judgments in the field of nuclear damage must be subject to uniform procedures throughout the eu. in order to improve the protection of victims in the event of nuclear accidents, it is necessary to establish and harmonise civil liability safeguards for nuclear damage across the eu. it is therefore important that all eu member states have acceded to this protocol. furthermore, the civil liability conditions for nuclear damage are important in the selection and negotiation of a strategic investor. only by working together can we achieve our goal of ensuring adequate compensation for possible nuclear damage.
in writing. − operators of nuclear power plants are responsible for any damage caused by them, regardless of fault. nuclear damage is not an event that affects only one country, which creates difficulties when attempting to figure out how to manage the process of handling the damage caused. therefore, regulations governing international nuclear liability are necessary and have been created. the two main forms of this regulation are the vienna convention and the paris convention on third party liability. these conventions provide adequate and fair compensation to victims of damage caused by nuclear accidents. however, although the eu is part of these conventions, some member states ratified the 1997 protocol prior to their accession. this has resulted in a lack of uniformity among member states and means that there are differences in how some member states would handle the procedure for recognition and enforcement of judgments in cases of nuclear damage. i voted in favour of this report because it is important for there to be uniform accountability in all member states so that victims can be compensated correctly.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the eu state aid rules as defined in articles 107 and 108 tfeu: article 107 provides for the definition of state aid and the grounds on which aid may be considered compatible with the internal market, and article 108 sets out the basic procedural principles on which the commission's action to ensure that member states comply with the rules laid down is based. detailed procedural rules for the application of these articles are laid down in regulation (ec) no 659/1999. this so-called procedural regulation has not been substantially amended since its adoption in 1999. the current proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 659/1999 is part of a more comprehensive reform of the state aid system in line with the commission communication on the modernisation of eu state aid. the overall objective of the reform of state aid rules is to ensure that state aid is better integrated into the europe 2020 agenda and budgetary consolidation. this proposal will contribute most to the improvement of the effectiveness of state aid control.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to ensure that member states comply with the rules laid down and also to seek to increase the effectiveness of state aid controls. it is important to note that the current proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 659/1999 is part of a more comprehensive reform of the state aid system under the commission communication on the modernisation of eu state aid. the overall objective of the reform of state aid rules is to ensure that state aid contributes to the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. one of the problems that can be observed is that member states do not have a common framework of aid rules and often suffer from this uncertainty. in order to ensure that the rules are applied consistently at national level, i would support the commission's proposal to create more convenient tools to help national courts to reach decisions. this new provision is necessary to achieve the objectives of the reform of the state aid system, as it will help to ensure that the commission can carry out investigations more accurately and more quickly. in addition, there are proposals to provide for fines for infringements of the rules, but the level of fines should be differentiated between the parties concerned and third parties.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in order to promote sustainable, progressive and inclusive economic growth, state aid should be compatible with the internal market. it is essential to ensure that member states properly comply with the rules laid down and to ensure that the aid does not distort competition and trade. an effective control mechanism and increased transparency are necessary to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. more attention should be paid to complaint procedures. they need to be faster, more efficient and more transparent. it should be noted that effective and reliable market information ensures the compatibility of the aid quickly and effectively. therefore, in order to allow for more accurate and timely investigation, the commission should be empowered to apply dissuasive measures in respect of erroneous information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. aviation is a vital sector of the eu economy, generating over eur 365 billion of eu gdp and providing some 5,1 million jobs. seven years ago, the commission published a communication on the development of an aviation agenda for the community's external policy, but its objectives have not yet been achieved. global trends in aviation threaten the viability and competitiveness of the sector in the eu. the world is operating flexible models that enable companies to build large airports that will try to take over a certain share of eu passengers. the eu therefore needs to increase its airport capacity to survive in the highly competitive global aviation market. since 2005, a number of agreements have been concluded with key partner countries. however, there are very important agreements to be concluded with key partners, including australia and new zealand. it is also important to acquire existing eu instruments such as sesar, which is the tool for modernising the eu's airspace control infrastructure, gnns, which is the global satellite navigation programme, etc. the implementation of these measures would strengthen the position of the eu industry and give it greater opportunities in the competitive global aviation market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because aviation plays an important role in connecting people and businesses in the european union and around the world, especially with emerging markets. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on civil aviation security. the growing common aviation space is being developed together with neighbouring countries. it is worth noting that low-cost carriers are the driving force behind the strong competition between airlines, and the low-cost segment represents 40% of the total eu air transport market. all air carriers are obliged to comply with common requirements and to guarantee fundamental rights in accordance with the conventions of the international labour organisation. the non-compliance with these and other conditions constitutes a barrier to aviation growth and employment. i believe that now more than ever is the time to make rapid progress in european aviation. new economic challenges are linked to regions of the world where, under much more liberal legislation, companies can build huge new airports, attracting many passengers from european air hubs. the european union needs to increase its airport capacity urgently to avoid a loss of competitiveness, especially in relation to the asia-pacific, middle east and south american regions.
in writing. − the eu's external aviation policy and agreements are crucial to the creation of an open airspace, and hence to more direct routes and shorter flights. this is very important for the environment. however, in order to further improve the quality of the environment, it is necessary to seek to ensure that high environmental standards are also implemented in third countries and these issues should also be included in the aviation content of the eu's external policy.
in writing. − i believe that a more ambitious eu external aviation policy is needed. aviation plays a key role in the economic and industrial sectors. in the light of the new economic challenges and the negative effects of the crisis, it is necessary to review the current aviation policy in order to ensure that the sector is able to compete on the global market and to respond adequately to the new challenges. it should be noted that european carriers were particularly affected by the economic downturn. they are not adequately protected against unfair competition. in particular, a coherent strategy for the development of a common external aviation policy is needed to create added value for european consumers and eu industry. we need to implement reforms more decisively to maintain a strong and competitive aviation industry.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in 2011, the parliament and the council agreed to transpose the 2005 oecd agreement on export credit activities into eu law. in designing, developing and implementing their national export credit schemes and in monitoring the performance of officially supported export credit activities, member states should be guided by the union's general provisions on external action, such as those relating to the consolidation of democracy, respect for human rights and a consistent development policy, and the fight against climate change. it was agreed that, in return for greater transparency at eu level of member states' export credit activities, the commission could adopt a delegated act to implement future oecd agreements. one of the key requirements for greater transparency is the obligation for member states to submit annual reports to the commission. the reports shall include information on assets and liabilities, payments and compensation made, new commitments, positions and bonuses, and contingent liabilities arising from the operation of officially supported export credits. the reports submitted to the member states and the evaluation of the reports by the commission together with the evaluation report submitted show that it is virtually impossible to evaluate the data submitted. i support the call by the european parliament to ensure the proper quality of the presentation of the activity reports and the evaluation of these reports by the commission.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to ensure the roadworthiness of motor vehicles and to ensure its application in order to improve road safety and environmental protection. it should be noted that in order to be authorised for placing on the market, a vehicle must meet the applicable type or individual approval requirements which guarantee an optimum level of safety and environmental standards. this registration is the official authorisation to operate a vehicle on public roads and ensures compliance with the requirements, the application of which varies from vehicle to vehicle. the provisions on the vehicle registration procedure should be introduced in a similar manner in all member states in order to ensure that vehicles posing a direct risk to road safety are not used on the roads. i would therefore support the commission's proposal to reduce the dimensions of registration certificates and to make them as a record of the roadworthiness test so that drivers would have to carry fewer documents. i also believe that vehicle owners should have the possibility to withdraw the registration of their vehicle themselves in order to avoid liability.
in writing. − in 2011, the parliament and the council agreed to transpose the 2005 oecd agreement on export credit activities into eu law. annex i to regulation (eu) no 1233/2011 which obliges the ec to provide the ep with annual reports on the negotiations conducted to establish global standards in the field of officially supported export credits. the first reference period covers 2011, which evaluated the activities of 20 (out of 27) member states in this area. this document is transmitted as a restricted document and is not accessible to the public. the 2011-2012 report is also provided. the rapporteur disputes the existing restriction on the basis of the lack of transparency in the field of export credits. the annual reports of the member states and the translation of these reports by the commission do not correspond nearly to parliament's wish to be able to assess this compliance, as there is still no agreement on the methodology for the assessment, especially on non-financial issues such as environmental impact, etc. therefore, in order to help improve the quality of reporting, recommendations are provided to the member states and the commission on how to prepare the next annual report, which would better meet our expectations to monitor the activities of export credit agencies. i voted in favour of this proposal because it is necessary to draw up guidelines for member states so that in future annual reports the commission can actually provide parliament with an assessment of whether member states' activities in the field of export credits are in line with the objectives of the eu's external action.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the export agencies of the member states play a crucial role in creating jobs and mitigating the effects of the current economic and financial crisis, not only in the eu but also beyond. this is an important measure to safeguard the activities and investments of european companies. it is therefore essential that export credit agencies take due account of the objectives and policies of the union. high standards of transparency and reporting must be applied in the eu to reduce market distortions and create a level playing field. it is essential to ensure the soundness of the financial operations of the agencies, as their support must be of maximum benefit. bribery and corruption must be prevented. market access for small and medium-sized enterprises should be ensured and free and fair trade promoted.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. there are about 110 000 public-benefit funds in the eu, with total assets of around €350 billion, total expenditure of around €83 billion and employing 750 000 to 1 000 000 eu citizens. some of the staff of the funds are volunteers who are not paid for their time. in addition, eu funds are subject to 50 different pieces of civil and tax legislation, as well as a host of complex administrative procedures, which incur an annual consultation cost of around €100 million - meaning that this money is no longer used for public benefit purposes, and tax and administrative obstacles prevent the funds from taking up or developing activities in another member state. i support the council regulation on the adoption of a single european fund statute, which will set minimum standards of transparency, accountability, supervision and use of funds which can be useful to citizens and donors as a kind of quality mark and thus ensure trust in the funds and encourage their eu-wide activities.
in writing. − the european union funds invest large sums for the benefit of society in areas such as education, research, social care and health, the environment, talent development, youth and sport, and arts and culture. increasingly, the funds are operating at a cross-border level, and as very few of the issues they address are of a country-specific nature, they face obstacles such as the concept of a public interest objective, civil or legal grounds. on 8 february 2012, the commission presented a proposal for the establishment of a european fund statute to remove existing obstacles, facilitate the cross-border operation of the funds and simplify the transfer of support. the new statute should apply alongside the national statutes. the aim of setting minimum standards for transparency, accountability, registration, supervision and audit is to ensure that european funds become a quality mark for citizens and donors. i voted for this document because it would give more money to socially useful causes, make it cheaper and administratively easier for donors to allocate crossborder aid, and provide greater security for the funds. they would also have reduced administrative and consultancy costs. member states would have more money to spend on education, research, social care and health, culture and environmental protection.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. the funds play a crucial role in areas of importance to european citizens and the european economy. it is essential that money is used efficiently and optimally for purposes of public benefit. to meet the needs of people living in the eu, strict requirements for transparency, sustainability, accountability and oversight must be applied across the eu. this will ensure greater trust in the european fund and prevent any discrimination. moreover, the possibility of taking full advantage of the single market should significantly reduce the fiscal and administrative burden. however, the possibility of making it easier for the funds to support objectives of general interest should not place undue burdens on member states or create additional burdens and costs.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the international labour organisation adopted the maritime labour convention in 2006, which sets out minimum requirements for seafarers on board ships, accommodation, rest and health, health care and social protection. certain provisions of the convention have already been incorporated in eu legislation, except those relating to the implementation of the convention, as the convention had not yet entered into force. the convention entered into force one year later, on 20 august 2012, after its ratification by the 30th signatory. it is therefore necessary to update the eu legislation in this area, fully ensuring the appropriate compatibility of the provisions of the convention with the eu legal framework.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to establish common requirements and rules on work in the maritime sector, i.e. conditions of employment, accommodation, rest, food and catering, health, health care, welfare and social protection. it is essential that the european union establishes mechanisms to verify that all ships calling at eu ports are complying with the relevant standards, regardless of the nationality of the seafarers or the flag of the ship. this would also ensure measures to limit social dumping which undermines working conditions and penalises shipowners. while early ratification of the convention and the transposition of the amended directive into national law is important, the creation of an adequate legislative framework is not sufficient. member states shall also employ inspectors with sufficient skills to be able to assess the living and working conditions of seafarers on board ships. the european maritime safety agency also plays an important role in the training of inspectors.
in writing. − the international labour organisation (ilo) adopted the convention on maritime labour on 23 february 2006. it covers minimum requirements for seafarers working on board. it will replace 37 existing maritime oct conventions and will be the first comprehensive maritime labour code. i supported the proposal as european legislation was already aligned with the relevant provisions of the convention, but the european social partners did not have the power to incorporate into this agreement the implementing provisions contained in part v of the convention, so this proposal is necessary. it is closely linked to the flag state commitment proposal. parliament has long supported measures to establish minimum standards for working and living conditions on board ships. ships which do not comply with the standards are not acceptable from the point of view of workers' rights, safety, security and environmental protection of the ship, and this is the responsibility of the shipowners, masters and flag states. however, not all flag states implement these provisions effectively. it would therefore be appropriate for the eu to provide mechanisms to verify that all ships calling at eu ports are subject to the relevant standards, irrespective of the flag or nationality of the seafarers. important condition ships which have not ratified the convention would not be subject to reservations. the amendments aim to bring the texts of the port state control directive and the convention closer together. whereas it is important to ensure that the provisions of eu law are consistent with the union's external obligations and to shorten the transposition period so that member states can already benefit fully from the requirements;
in writing. - i agree with the position that has been put forward. the whole shipping sector must be ensured of adequate working and living conditions, irrespective of the nationality of the seafarer or the flag of the ship. high standards of ship safety, environmental and social protection are key factors in achieving the objectives pursued. the eu must establish a mechanism to improve maritime safety and ensure a more level playing field for shipping. in particular, better quality jobs for all seafarers should be ensured and distortions of competition in the internal market should be avoided where the requirements of safe navigation are not respected. it is essential that ships entering ports in the eu are regularly inspected. this will prevent threats not only to human life but also to the marine environment. this would be a major step forward in tackling the problem of substandard ships.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to support and ensure the application of roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles to improve road safety and environmental protection. the proposal improves compliance with roadside inspection and roadworthiness tests, in particular where the technical condition of a vehicle poses an immediate risk to road safety, by means of measures such as temporary suspension of registration of a vehicle and final withdrawal of registration. it also simplifies bureaucratic procedures, for example by providing for the possibility of withdrawing the registration of a vehicle in the member state in which it is registered if the vehicle is re-registered in another member state or dismantled and scrapped. in order to reduce the administrative burden and to facilitate the exchange of information between member states, information relating to vehicles should be stored in national electronic registers, and in order to facilitate checks and, in particular, to prevent fraud and illegal trade in stolen vehicles, as well as to check the validity of the certificate of inspection, it is appropriate for member states to cooperate closely and to exchange information effectively by using national electronic databases.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to support and ensure the application of roadworthiness testing for motor vehicles in order to improve road safety and environmental protection. it is important to note that the obligation of each member state to register for the first time a vehicle whose type is approved in europe on the basis of a certificate of conformity issued by the vehicle manufacturer. the proposal provides for a more precise definition of the place of registration of vehicles and for suspension and revocation of registration certificates than is already the case under existing legislation. suspension ensures that vehicles posing a direct risk to road safety are not allowed to be used on the road, i.e. their registration is suspended until they have been successfully subjected to another roadworthiness test. vehicles which are to be scrapped after periodic technical inspection and which are declared unfit for use shall be withdrawn from registration following prior notification of this decision. the proposal thus aims to improve compliance with roadworthiness tests and roadworthiness tests, in particular where the technical condition of a vehicle poses a direct threat to road safety.
in writing. − the everyday life of every eu citizen is inseparable from transport. the owners of these vehicles undoubtedly value the recording system and the prospect of recovering their vehicle, for example, in the event of theft. this document will standardise a system of national electronic smoke databases, which will allow for the rapid and efficient exchange of information on vehicles on european union roads. such a system will help to combat the trade in stolen cars, limit the scope of forged documents and ensure security standards.
in writing. − it is essential to have a mechanism in place to prevent vehicles that do not meet safety requirements from being driven on the road. road safety problems should be addressed by uniform methods. strong measures are needed at eu level to prevent fraud and the illegal trade in stolen vehicles. in order to reduce red tape and facilitate the daily lives of vehicle users, it is essential that member states cooperate more closely and exchange information effectively. the use of electronic databases should be encouraged in all member states and between member states. in addition, the mutual recognition should be applied more effectively. only by working together can we ensure that the inspections and certificates of conformity carried out by one member state are automatically recognised in all the other member states. however, the new regulation should not impose additional administrative and financial burdens.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. on 20 july 2010, the european commission adopted policy guidelines on road safety. to achieve the stated objective of reducing road accidents by 50% between 2010 and 2020, the commission has proposed a strategy for safer vehicles, which consists of two parts: harmonisation and strengthening of eu legislation on roadworthiness and roadworthiness tests (including motorcycles) and the creation of a european electronic platform to harmonise the procedure for exchanging vehicle data (type approval, registration, inspection results, etc.). the new commission proposals will strengthen the technical control of the condition of commercial vehicles between periodic inspections by carrying out unexpected additional inspections of commercial vehicles on the road. other aspects of the proposal include new requirements such as a risk identification system for the selection of vehicles to be inspected, mandatory roadside inspection of light commercial vehicles, a certain number of roadside inspections per year in each vn including a check on the attachment of the load, more detailed inspections with the participation of a mobile inspection team or a nearby technical inspection centre, and regular coordinated inspection activities by member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to ensure a safer transport strategy in all member states. on 20 july 2010, the european commission adopted policy guidelines on road safety with the aim of reducing road accidents by 50% between 2010 and 2020. the commission's strategy is divided into two parts: the harmonisation of eu legislation on roadworthiness tests and roadworthiness tests and the creation of a european electronic platform. directive 2009/40/ec is currently being supplemented by directive 2000/30/ec, which establishes the requirement to check the technical condition of commercial vehicles between periodic roadworthiness tests unexpected additional on-the-spot roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles. in the context of road safety, it is also necessary to take account of human error and misconduct and to seek to correct them. all components, in particular the vehicle and infrastructure, should therefore be designed to prevent these failures and limit their consequences for all road users.
in writing. − to make the roadside inspection of commercial vehicles more effective, risk assessment systems need to be strengthened. depending on the results of the roadworthiness test, drivers may be subject to more frequent roadworthiness tests, and such standardisation of the rules is necessary due to the different systems in place in the european union. i hope that a common approach to the assessment and inspection of commercial vehicles will raise safety standards across the eu, whose roads kill about 75 people every day.
in writing. − for road safety and environmental protection, it is essential to ensure that vehicles placed on the market remain in good condition throughout their lifetime. vehicle maintenance should ensure that commercial vehicles remain in good technical condition throughout the year. while on-road inspections of commercial vehicles are an important tool to control the level of maintenance of commercial vehicles on the road, they should only be carried out as an additional measure in the event of a real risk. such a regime should not impose any disproportionate burden on undertakings. the risk assessment system should be based on very strict criteria and the target group for selection should be only high-risk enterprises. it should be noted that road transport undertakings are constantly forced to escape from a difficult situation both because of the unstable financial situation and because of the constantly increasing administrative burden. we must therefore work together to reduce the burden on those users who keep their vehicles in good condition.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. since 2009, the eu has set minimum standards for regular vehicle inspections for passenger cars, buses and heavy goods vehicles. the commission has presented new roadworthiness rules to further improve road safety and ensure a high level of environmental protection. the commission's proposals are based on the establishment of common eu-wide minimum standards for vehicle inspections, leaving member states free to go further and, if necessary, define higher standards. the new rules will make eu-wide inspections of scooters, motorcycles and other motor vehicles compulsory. the vehicles to be inspected would also include those belonging to the highest risk group for road users. light trailers (up to 3,5 tonnes) would also be checked. vehicles in these categories are currently excluded from the eu-wide system and are left to the discretion of the member states. it will also provide for more frequent periodic roadworthiness tests for certain categories of vehicles, minimum levels of competence and training requirements for inspectors, common minimum standards for deficiencies and equipment, with a view to improving the quality of roadworthiness tests.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary not only to improve road safety but also to provide citizens with accurate information on vehicles purchased in other member states. in addition, as technology evolves, it is necessary to adapt the legislation applicable to vehicles previously not covered by the regulation. for these reasons, the european commission has introduced new roadworthiness rules to further improve road safety and ensure a high level of environmental protection. it is important to note that the proposal is in line with the road safety objectives set out in the white paper 'a roadmap for the creation of a single european transport area'. this proposal is based on common eu standards for vehicle inspections. i would also support the commission's other proposal to extend the eucaris system. this european electronic vehicle information system should be cost-effective and easy to implement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as a possible contribution to improving road safety. the introduction of compulsory roadworthiness tests for scooters from 2016, for motorcycles from 2018 and for light trailers up to 3,6 tonnes and caravans over 750 kg in all countries of the european union is particularly necessary to improve road safety. it is essential to have a uniform level of roadworthiness throughout the eu in order to increase the number of vehicles that are fit for everyday accidents on the road. i am saddened by my country's statistics, which show that lithuania is the first in the european union in terms of the number of people who die on the roads. therefore, any tightening of technical inspections is a step, however small, towards prevention.
in writing. − it is essential to ensure that vehicles placed on the market comply with safety standards throughout their lifetime. a balanced approach to the inspection of cars and light vehicles should be adopted across the eu and the internal market for periodic roadworthiness tests should be further developed. however, the periodic technical inspection regime shall not impose an unreasonable burden or excessive financial cost on their users. in this context, further analyses of its potential impact on citizens and businesses should be carried out. certain obligations must be imposed on vehicle owners to ensure that their vehicles are in a proper state of repair at all times. however, there are doubts whether the new technical inspection rules will help to achieve the objectives properly and without violating the eu's subsidiarity principle. it is essential that the freedom of action of the member states is not unduly restricted.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this document, which establishes a list of chemicals that pose a serious threat to or through the eu's aquatic environment. chemical pollution is one of the reasons for the continuously increasing impact on the aquatic environment and the availability and quality of safe and clean water. therefore, one of the most important aspects of sustainable water management is the implementation of appropriate water chemical pollution control measures. the commission proposal amends the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive in order to update the list of priority substances in the field of water policy, as required to be done at least every four years under the water framework directive. the commission proposal adds 15 new priority substances to the list of chemicals, 6 of which are identified as priority hazardous substances, introduces a requirement to measure the concentration of several substances, for example in fish or crustaceans, and introduces a new watch list mechanism for monitoring substances of potential concern in order to collect data for future priority determinations of substances.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because chemical pollution of water is one of the main concerns of the citizens of the european union. it is important to note that according to the eurobarometer survey of 3 july 2012, 68% of europeans consider water quantity and quality problems to be serious, and 80% say that chemical pollution is a threat to the aquatic environment. for these reasons, the commission has therefore proposed to raise public awareness through information and communication actions on the results and impacts of measures to prevent pollution of surface water. for example, by creating websites providing access to river basin management plans drawn up by member states. public information is one of the keys to success in water policy, i.e. measures to prevent water pollution should not just be written into eu documents but should become a common interest for all eu citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because chemical pollution is affecting the ever-increasing impact on the water environment and the availability and quality of safe and clean water in our society. therefore, it is essential to implement measures to control chemical pollution. this also reflects the concerns of eu citizens. the water framework directive, adopted in 2000, sets out strategies to combat pollution, lists chemicals that pose a serious threat to or through the eu's aquatic environment, and provides for compliance standards. the commission proposal amends the water framework directive and the environmental quality standards directive to update the list of priority substances in the field of water policy. i welcome the commission's proposal and am convinced that a number of amendments will make the directive clearer and more effective in achieving good surface water status throughout the eu. the duration of the list should not exceed four years.
in writing. − the eu's environmental policy is based on scientific achievements and available information. i am glad that eu water policy is no exception and that legislation follows scientific advice. the strengthening of water legislation is a necessary and inevitable step in the face of the increasing pollutant levels in waste water. on the other hand, the question of water pollution by pharmaceutical substances must also be finally resolved as soon as possible, and i hope that the commission will present a strategic approach to this issue as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. a good quality of the water environment is a key objective not only for the eu but also for each member state. the preservation of a balanced aquatic environment is essential for the whole ecosystem and for human health. common, stringent measures to control chemical pollution of water must be applied in the eu. it is essential that effective emission limits are set at eu level. i believe that it is appropriate to update and extend the list of priority substances in the field of water policy in order to ensure good chemical and ecological status of water. the monitoring of potentially hazardous substances within the eu would support a process of prioritisation of substances. in view of the potential threat to the aquatic environment in the eu, an assessment of the effects on humans, animals and plants should be carried out. in addition, additional measures should be provided to address water management problems. in order to further improve water quality, member states should be provided with adequate funding.
in writing. − many europeans consider water pollution to be one of the main environmental issues. the water framework directive (wfd) was created in 2000 to address multiple facets of water policy, including strategies against pollution. the directive identifies a list of substances, chemicals and pollutants which pose the greatest risk to the ‘good status’ of european water bodies. the commission is now proposing to update this list by adding new priority substances, revising the standing of some that already exist and creating a new watch-list mechanism to monitor new substances. i support this proposal because it is important to keep our water bodies as free from pollution as possible. eu citizens have made it clear that they are worried about the state of their water bodies and the policies concerning them. therefore, even as we take new steps to reduce pollution, we must be sure that there is sufficient public awareness of how these policies are in the interest of all eu citizens. through information and communications, people will be able to see what measures are being taken and how they impact the pollution of water bodies as well as the quality of everyday life.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in order to ensure enforcement and to simplify administrative management without weakening the commission's control, council regulation (ec) no 994/98 of 7 may 1998 on the application of articles 92 and 93 of the treaty establishing the european community to certain types of horizontal state aid (the 'authorising regulation') empowered the commission to determine by regulation that certain types of aid are compatible with the common market and do not require notification, as provided for in article 108 (3) tfeu. these are aid to small and medium-sized enterprises, aid for research and technological development, environmental protection or employment and training, and aid in accordance with the guidelines for regional aid for each member state adopted by the commission. the commission requests a general exemption from the notification requirement for more types of aid such as state aid linked to natural disasters, state aid linked to certain adverse weather conditions in the fisheries sector, state aid for the conservation of marine biological resources, state aid for amateur sports, social aid for transport for residents of remote regions, state aid for certain broadband infrastructure, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to examine the provisions governing certain state aid rules for public passenger transport services by rail and road. it is important to note that, according to the proposal of the european commission, article 9 of regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 should cease to apply six months after the entry into force of the regulation adopted by the commission on this type of state aid. the commission should take into account the legislative prerogatives of the european parliament when preparing a proposal for a delegation of power. any amendments to regulation no 1370/2007 which the commission wished to make had to be proposed only by means of the ordinary legislative procedure. it is therefore essential that the proposed amendments be incorporated in the report when this regulation is being considered by the competent committees of the european parliament.
in writing. − the commission's proposal for a delegation regulation clearly disregarded parliament's legislative prerogatives. any amendments to regulation no 1370/2007 which the commission wished to make had to be proposed only by means of the ordinary legislative procedure. i voted in favour of this document because the aim of all the amendments contained in this document is to remove all references to regulation no 1370/2007 from the commission proposal and to support the commission proposal as amended. the commission is invited to amend its proposal accordingly, in accordance with article 293 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. a clear framework should be established for the implementation of union state aid policy. in particular, state aid procedures and administrative management should be simplified. moreover, in order to ensure its proper implementation, the state aid must be compatible with the common market. it should be noted that the importance of sport in society is very high and it is therefore essential that appropriate possibilities for state aid to support this activity are created. it should be noted that the aid to amateur sport would not result in significant distortions of competition and would not have a negative effect on trade between member states. i think it is appropriate to provide state aid to sports associations also for the implementation of sports infrastructure projects. on the other hand, it is essential that a strict control and monitoring mechanism is in place and that the general exemptions are applied gradually, following thorough and reasoned impact assessments.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the blue growth initiative includes proposals for greater economic prospects in the union's coastal regions the commission's blue growth initiative was based on a comprehensive study of the economic potential of the marine and coastal sectors and identified five areas with a high potential for job creation and innovation. these are: blue energy, aquaculture, marine and coastal tourism, extraction of marine mineral resources and blue technologies. with a focus on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, the commission presents blue growth as the maritime dimension of the europe 2020 strategy. it is essential to exploit the opportunities of blue growth in terms of job creation, to increase the attractiveness of the maritime and seafarer professions by supporting high-employment sectors such as cruise tourism and offshore wind farms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the urgent need for economic development and job creation means that a new policy approach to the marine economy is needed. it is important to note that the establishment of an appropriate institutional framework for maritime and coastal sectors would open up many opportunities for innovation and sustainable development. already, advanced underwater equipment is providing opportunities for eu scientists and businesses to use the sea to combat climate change, develop treatments for serious diseases, stockpile rare minerals and more. building on long and strong maritime traditions, europe is now developing new activities - offshore wind farms, aquaculture and more. the integrated maritime policy agenda is a key instrument to create the conditions necessary for european businesses to create added value in the blue economy. i would therefore welcome the blue growth initiative and the proposed measures to regulate and strengthen the blue economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because economic development and the need to create jobs highlight the need for a new political approach to the maritime economy. this is important not only because of the eu's development of offshore wind farms, aquaculture, etc., but also because over-exploitation of land resources raises prices on world markets and increases the economic incentive to explore for mineral resources on the seabed. the commission's blue growth initiative was based on a thorough study of the economic potential of the marine and coastal sectors. it identifies five areas where there is a high potential for job creation and innovation. these are: blue energy, aquaculture, marine and coastal tourism, extraction of marine mineral resources and blue technologies. this is the maritime dimension of the europe 2020 strategy. it gives new impetus to the integrated maritime policy. the rapporteur welcomes the initiative and the proposed measures, but notes that the first challenge is the need to ensure that the workforce has the skills needed for the emerging maritime sectors, since blue growth will then mean a significant increase in employment. the second challenge is to ensure the integrated sustainability of blue growth, i.e. to ensure that it does not harm the fragile marine environment and makes a significant contribution to combating climate change. strategic planning at eu level is also needed to ensure coordination and synergy between existing policy instruments and new initiatives and measures under development in the light of new eu priorities.
in writing. − the european union's maritime sector is still characterised by a high level of administrative and border procedures, which hamper the creation of a single maritime transport area. the harmonisation of such procedures between member states, underpinned by the 'blue growth' strategy, will encourage more effective cooperation and contribute to job creation in the maritime sector. it is important to remember that a healthy and productive ecosystem is one of the key aspects of creating a competitive blue economy, and i would therefore encourage funding for blue biotechnologies, sustainable fisheries, aquaculture and the conservation of marine mineral resources.
in writing. − i believe that a new approach to the marine economy is needed to make the most of the opportunities offered by blue growth for job creation, competitiveness and social cohesion. this would help to reduce tensions, resolve problems and revive the economy. it is worth noting that a sustainable european maritime economy is a rich source of innovation, growth and employment. this is a guarantee of europe's long-term competitiveness. in this context, strategic planning and action at eu level are necessary to develop an advanced and ambitious integrated maritime policy. blue growth must deliver the greatest benefits and ensure high employment growth and integrated sustainability. it is essential to reduce business costs and improve the investment environment. in addition, the development of new concepts of economic activity should be facilitated and partnerships between maritime actors should be continuously strengthened and promoted.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. eu cooperatives are becoming increasingly important. the eu currently has 160 000 cooperatives, run by 123 million members, which create some 5.4 million jobs and about 5% of the gdp of each member state. in the last few years, several hundred cooperative enterprises have been set up in the industrial and service sectors to restructure businesses affected by the crisis, thus safeguarding jobs and local economic activity. cooperatives in the industrial and service sectors have had a major impact in periods of regional recession by effectively encouraging the development of very small enterprises. this shows that the contribution of cooperatives to the eu economy and employment stability is significant, especially in times of crisis. i support the european parliament's calls on the commission to reassess the role of the european cooperative society, to encourage the creation of new european-wide cooperatives and to facilitate the merger of cooperatives established in different member states into groups. in addition, the commission, together with the eib and the european investment fund (eif), should ensure that cooperatives have access to eu-level financial mechanisms, including, where appropriate, the sme finance action plan proposed in the single market act.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because cooperatives, along with other social enterprises, play a key role in the european economy. it is important to note that cooperatives are becoming increasingly important in the eu, with some 160 000 cooperative enterprises, owned by 123 million members and employing 5.4 million people. in addition, several hundred cooperative enterprises have been set up in the industrial and service sectors over the past few years to restructure crisis-hit or heirless businesses, thus preserving jobs and local economic activity. it is clear that cooperatives play a very important role in the eu in terms of economic, social, sustainable development and employment, and in the implementation of social innovation. this is essential in the implementation of both the europe 2020 strategy and the horizon 2020 programme to help achieve the objective of sustainable economic and social development of regional and local communities. in other words, cooperatives, especially in difficult economic times, combine profitability with solidarity, which creates high-quality jobs, strengthens social, economic and regional cohesion and accumulates social capital, and is therefore a necessary element of a social market economy.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because cooperatives, together with other social economy enterprises, play a key role in the european economy, especially in the context of the crisis. they combine profitability with solidarity, creating high-quality jobs, strengthening social, economic and regional cohesion and accumulating social capital. social economy enterprises should benefit from a clearer and more coherent regulatory framework, while taking into account the great diversity and specificities of social economy institutions. the cooperative business model contributes to genuine economic pluralism, is an essential element of the social market economy and is fully in line with the values of the eu treaty and the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. cooperatives should be fully involved in the implementation of the objectives of the eu industrial policy and related measures, bearing in mind their crucial contribution to industrial restructuring, a key objective of the new eu industrial policy. cooperatives make a significant contribution to the eu economy and to employment stability, especially in times of crisis, but the situation varies across member states due to differences in legal provisions and concepts, and the european commission needs to review existing legislation to find similarities and harmonise key aspects of it in line with the principle of subsidiarity in order to remove obstacles to the development of cooperatives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because their contribution to the eu economy and employment stability is very high. the cooperative business model is an essential element of the social market economy. cooperatives bring together millions of people and play an important role in social life. they not only promote job creation, but they are also able to adapt to change when risks arise. it is worth noting that in the energy sector they play a crucial role in increasing the use of renewable energy sources and improving energy efficiency. in this context, it is essential to establish a mechanism at eu level to encourage the creation and development of new european-wide cooperatives. in addition, adequate funding must be available to enable cooperatives to benefit from the financial mechanisms. a special role must be given to the transfer of business.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. europe will have to face many social challenges over the next 40 years. with a growing world population, a rapidly increasing demand for food and energy resources, and a world facing a decline in natural resources, europe needs to consider a new approach to production and consumption to adapt to these new demands in an efficient and sustainable way. the bioeconomy offers a great opportunity to address these challenges, not only by ensuring greater sustainability, but also by supporting rural development, by providing the potential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, by ensuring a more sustainable production cycle and by disseminating industrial innovation throughout the value chain. the eu's bioeconomy sector has already reached a turnover of almost €2 trillion, with strong growth expected in sustainable primary production, food processing, industrial biotechnologies and biological processing. the sector already employs 22 million people, or 9% of all eu workers, and there is much more to be done. i agree with the commission communication 'innovation for sustainable growth'. bioeconomy for europe's action plan for a bioeconomy strategy and the call for member states to develop national and regional bioeconomy action plans and for the commission to report to parliament twice a year on the implementation of the economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union has a duty to reduce its dependence on imported biomass from developing countries. it is important to note that the sustainable biomass supply of the eu will never be sufficient to meet current energy demand and growing and competing uses of biomass. the eu is expected to become increasingly dependent on imports from developing countries, where the use of biomass poses one of the main management challenges. for this reason, i would encourage the eu to become an active centre of research and innovation in the international field of bioeconomy research. there is no doubt that new products, processes and services based on renewable resources would enable the eu to strengthen the competitiveness of its industry and to become a leader on an international scale. the importance of healthy biodiversity and ecosystems for primary production in agriculture, forestry and fisheries should be particularly emphasised.
in writing. − i voted for this document because, with the world's population growing, the demand for food and energy increasing rapidly, and the world's natural resources declining, europe must consider a new approach to production and consumption. the bioeconomy offers great opportunities to address these challenges, not only by ensuring greater sustainability, but also by supporting rural development and adapting and implementing environmental policies. looking ahead, it can also be a response to food security, economic growth and employment. i welcome the commission communication on a bioeconomy for europe. the development of a clear and stable legislative framework and the coordination of different policies are necessary to promote support. it is necessary to ensure and develop coordinated and coherent research and innovation programmes, to provide support for industrial investment measures and to maximise the return on investment. the establishment of public-private partnerships for the development of biotechnology-based industries would allow the development of new products, reducing the migration of qualified professionals and the outsourcing of innovation projects from europe.
in writing. − the bioeconomy is essential to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. an economic model that delivers lower production costs, energy efficiency and a cleaner environment would also ensure more sustainable, efficient production, consumption, development and lifestyles and boost economic growth in europe. this is of particular relevance to all eu member states at this time.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the bioeconomy sector plays a crucial role in fostering innovation-driven growth and job creation in a low-carbon economy and in helping to reduce dependence on fossil fuels. it is worth noting that the increasing consumption is bringing ever-growing pollution problems to the fore. in view of this, procrastination only exacerbates these problems and has extremely painful negative consequences. in order to ensure food and energy security and enhance european competitiveness, it is necessary to remove not only bureaucratic but also possible financial obstacles to innovation and other risks arising from the transition to the bioeconomy. particular attention shall be paid to the public-private partnership, its development and growth. in addition, financial support measures should be made available for pre-commercial investments in the bioeconomy in order to meet the growing needs of consumers and avoid negative environmental impacts. this will pave the way for a transition to a research and innovation-based bioresource economy and for europe to become a global leader in the bioeconomy, especially in terms of innovation and competitiveness.
first of all, i would like to thank mrs ingeborg gräßle for her truly enormous work and efforts to strengthen the european anti-fraud office. olaf is a very important institution, it is the backbone of the european union's budgetary protection and anti-fraud system. the number of fraud cases and irregularities reported is constantly increasing, which shows not only the growing importance of this service but also the need to strengthen it. the proposed reform aims to further improve the efficiency of its operations while ensuring the independence of the investigations carried out by the office. it is regrettable that the debate today is much more intense on the current disagreements and the division of powers between olaf and its supervisory committee than on the reform of olaf itself, which, as the commissioner said, is the result of seven years of hard work. olaf has about 500 staff and their work should not be hindered by similar interinstitutional disputes. the proposed reform would not only improve the efficiency of the work of these staff but also strengthen cooperation between olaf and the national competent authorities and enhance the rights of persons involved in investigations. this compromise text between the council and parliament may not be ideal for both sides, but the rules it lays down will make olaf's investigations much more effective than they are now. no reform is perfect, but a reform of olaf would be a first serious step towards improving the work of this institution and ensuring its independence. as a shadow rapporteur, i therefore propose, in the light of reality, that this compromise text, as agreed with the council, be adopted without amendments.
the answer to the question posed by the blue card is very brief, in fact, dear colleague, we have spent a number of hours on this question. and the commissioner has made it quite clear to us throughout the procedure that there may be no three months, that this reform may take a year, two years or more, if we do not reach an agreement with the council after the first reading. i have this information, and that is why i have mentioned the reality of what our coordinator, the honourable j. geier, was talking about. the commissioner himself has given a written commitment that talks can begin on a new round of negotiations as soon as the agreement is reached.
i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, both derek vaughan and ms a. česková, for their efforts in preparing this very important report on the 2011 anti-fraud report. the same problem emerges every year: some member states do not provide data on fraud and irregularities in a timely manner or their data are not accurate and reliable. in order to obtain all the necessary and reliable data, it is necessary to adopt as soon as possible uniform reporting principles in all member states, as i noted in my report on this matter back in 2012. this would allow us to see the real, i repeat, real scale of fraud in the member states and identify the member states where it is highest and take appropriate measures, which is not the case in current practice. this would also allow the member states to monitor the implementation of olaf's investigative recommendations. i would therefore like to reiterate that i propose that the commission take responsibility for the introduction of a uniform system in all member states in this respect.
for the ecr group i am honoured to speak on behalf of one of the five largest political groups in the european parliament. the lithuanian presidency is coming at a difficult time. the union is experiencing a deep economic crisis, high unemployment and a crisis of values. so here are a few things i'd like to point out. a europe of equal opportunities is one of the union's key slogans. but can we talk about equal opportunities today when farmers in the new union countries receive far lower benefits than their counterparts in western europe? the long transition period is over and the new budgetary perspective continues to be a disadvantage for agriculture. so what equality of opportunity are we talking about? i hope you will pay particular attention, madam president, to the fact that mr orwell's phrase 'even and equal' is not being applied. the european union is a great example of this. it is particularly needed in the field of energy security. but can we speak of european solidarity when one of the member states builds the nord stream pipeline despite the protests of the countries of central and eastern europe? it is clear that the union must have a united voice, because only in this way can we guarantee the energy security of the member states. there is another important energy issue. i am referring to the construction of a nuclear power plant in belarus, in the immediate vicinity of the union, 40 kilometres from the capital of lithuania. the example of fukushima should make us think. i hope that the risk posed to the people of the union by this inappropriate investment will be prevented. 'united in diversity' is the motto of the union. the european union promotes cultural and linguistic diversity. unfortunately, even today, in the 21st century, there are countries in the union that do not follow these rules and do not respect the rights of indigenous minorities. denmark or finland can be good examples in dealing with these issues. i hope that the president will implement these standards. europe, in order to emerge from the crisis of values, must go back to its roots, must return to the founding ideas and ideas of which robert schumann spoke so much, must build its identity on the basis of universal christian values. like my colleagues in the cor, i believe that europe must remain the europe of the twelve. this will allow us to preserve our identity and cultural diversity. a europe of growth, a europe of equal opportunities, a europe of values, a europe of solidarity - these are the ideas that should define the direction of the lithuanian presidency.
for the efd group i am happy and proud that 3 million citizens of my country will be able to show their country, culture, traditions in six months. i believe that lithuanian politicians, ministers and diplomats will be able to find words and solutions that will bring together the heads of european states and the citizens of those states for joint work. the presidency of the council of the european union is not only an honour but also a great responsibility, especially today, when the european union is going through some very difficult times. in the economic and political spheres, new decisiveness and flexible diplomacy are needed to reach agreements. i do not know if we have been talking about the common european interest for too long. but i am sure that each member of the community has been too long looking only at its own interests in energy, trade or politics. the attempt to unify many things has been too long and too thorough, leaving aside the essential and most important things, the political and civil rights, culture and history of the states. these are the things that unite the countries of europe. i hope that the lithuanian presidency will be worthy of the achievement of king mindaugas, a process of european unity. i therefore welcome you, madam president, to the strasbourg chamber. i think that's what i'm saying, and you're going to hear a lot of different kinds of proposals here. i would just like to congratulate you, wish you success, fortitude, perseverance, rejoice in the right priorities and wish you well that after six months in the european union there will be more lithuanians. good luck to you. (the president agreed to answer the question raised by the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
reply to the question after the blue card was raised our group will support the priorities of lithuania, the president of lithuania in all the points outlined and in all the priorities that have just been mentioned.
mr president, let us go back to the issue. many people ask: in what ways can lithuania contribute now that it is entering into the presidency of the eu, even if the job will be sometimes similar to that of a mere moderator? well, a level of consistency and devotion should be aimed at in striving for the utmost possible, even if many see that as something well-nigh impossible. lithuania has been capable of playing such a role in the past. it seems to me that the two principal points to concentrate on – in addition to the budget and internal union credibility – could be these: first, to retain and clarify the sovereignty of the eu in external policies towards ‘third countries’, as these include some that are friendly and cooperative, but also unfriendly and hegemonic ones. what was observed during the last decade, and was encountered with different levels of sobriety and strength, was moscow’s overt policy of achieving energy hegemony over single member states and eventually the entire union. but first there was a tendency to ignore our union as a political entity and split its community line into many bilateral traps. the union must face up to that challenge by being a really consolidated and sovereign party of global dialogue. it so happened that lithuania became a forerunner of the union’s policy of unbundling energy markets, turning them away from the temptations to dictate and demand obedience and towards fairness and cooperation. the breach is achieved: let us move forward. lithuania will not surrender as long as the union does not. as we still have some special immunities to the soviet propaganda weapon, we may appear useful also today, if there is a wish for such lithuanian expertise. the second point would be our understanding of the vital importance of the union’s openness, together with its historic mission of enlarging the european and world space of democracy and peace. tyrants will always dream of bringing you, dear and weak democracies, to your knees, just to say: ‘comrades, your game is over, that was our sporting sense of partnership’. to this we bring our brotherly solidarity based on a common destiny, with eastern neighbours striving for a europe of peace, to meet them with an extended hand. but also there is our own continued sense of being a civilisation of shared human values – not those neo–darwinist, consumerist or cannibalistic ones – but how to live by assisting each other, not by annihilating others or pushing them aside. lithuania, i believe, will urge the union to keep the doors open for eastern neighbours interested in building democracy, and to disagree strongly with continued attempts to redraw the european political map by force.
i thank you, mr president of the republic of lithuania, for presenting the programme of your presidency, i congratulate you and i wish you the best of luck in your presidency. indeed, the presidency of the council is a very big challenge and responsibility for a small country that has only been in the eu family for nine years, especially when we are holding the presidency for the first time. but i have no doubt that my native lithuania will succeed in this honourable task. we have the courage to set ambitious goals and the ability to achieve them. we have already demonstrated this in 1990 when we won our independence and, in a relatively short time, built a rapidly developing state based on european values. europe is in a difficult situation at the moment, and there is no doubt that financial stability, energy security, economic growth, job creation and competitiveness are crucial conditions for improving people's social well-being. equally important are social policy measures to reduce the risks of poverty and social exclusion. and while six months is a relatively short period of time, it is still a time to accomplish much. the most important thing is that the results are felt in practice by all eu citizens. it is particularly important that we make a concerted effort during this six-month period to take decisions that will reduce unemployment, especially among young people. lithuania must also pay particular attention to this area. we need to implement the youth guarantee as quickly as possible, both at eu and national level. lithuania is to take over the presidency at one of the most critical times in history, when europe, having reached a turning point after having just survived economic storms, must choose the path towards a more stable and better future. in addition, lithuania will need to find compromises to ensure smooth legislative decision-making in constructive cooperation with the european parliament, the european commission and the third world partners as the mandates of the european parliament and the commission come to an end. i wish you, mr president, the best of luck, strength and all of lithuania as well, and good results!
it is my great pleasure and honour to welcome my country on this special occasion. today, perhaps, a tectonic break in lithuania's history is taking place because the first post-communist state to preside over the council of the european union means that lithuania is saying goodbye forever to the label of a post-communist state, leaving this category and becoming an unquestionably reliable, long-term european state. another major breakthrough is that lithuania will for the first time tell europe not about itself, but will try to participate in the great storylines that have become the subject of europe's struggle for democracy and human rights around the world. these cartoons are about freedom in tibet, they're about political prisoners all over the world, they're about mikhail chodarkovsky, they're about sergei magnitsky. lithuania, thanks to its political sensitivity, as a former state that challenged the former soviet empire, will understand better than anyone else how tyranny, despotism and the desire to enslave societies and individuals in our neighbourhood, in europe itself, are still hidden behind the masks of the modern world's values and modern economy in our world today. finally, it is essential not to repeat the mistakes of history and not to leave europe as a no man's land, a gray area filled with despotic regimes and ideologies of hatred. that is why lithuania's priorities in the eastern partnership and its efforts to understand what is happening in ukraine, moldova and other partner countries mean that europe has a unique opportunity to hear the voice of a country with a lot of understanding, a lot of experience, which is fighting for europe, while fighting for all the peoples who want a democratic future.
blue-card question to mirosław piotrowski and sir graham watson. – i wanted to ask mr piotrowski about the source of the very false information which he provided here about the situation of poles in lithuania. where does that information come from? if the only source is local nationalists of polish origin in lithuania, it is not reliable. i should also like to ask sir graham watson about his remarks concerning viktor uspaskich.
i am delighted to be here today in the european parliament and welcome the long-awaited and historic lithuanian presidency of the council of the european union. the priorities, the action programme, to which lithuania will pay the greatest attention are ambitious, promising, but achievable. as president grybauskaitė has already mentioned, the objectives of the lithuanian presidency, a credible, growing, open europe, are precisely what the european union, which has survived a painful financial and economic crisis and often a lack of leadership, needs most at the moment. when we talk about a reliable europe, we are referring first and foremost to better economic governance, taxation and the fight against financial crime. a growing europe is a focus on our digital agenda, research and innovation, and an efficient single market, an energy market within the european union. finally, an open europe is the european union's enlargement agenda, a safe european neighbourhood and foreign trade, with the aim of economic growth. colleagues, it is particularly important that during lithuania's presidency we have the opportunity to take the european union's relations with its eastern neighbours ukraine, moldova, georgia and armenia to a qualitatively higher level, a qualitatively new level, such that the integration processes become irreversible and the european perspective, the membership perspective of these countries, becomes more real. i cannot fail to mention the baltic sea strategy, which is also on lithuania's list of priorities. the baltic sea is an inland sea of the european union, surrounded by eight european union member states. the baltic sea is not only our love, but also our responsibility. i hope that during the lithuanian presidency, alongside other key issues, we will find the time and the strength to pursue this strategy.
i would also like to congratulate the state of lithuania and you personally on this special date. my colleague, one of my colleagues, and here in parliament today, have made a number of suggestions, questions and complaints. this is just a small part of the problems that lithuania will face during its presidency. some of these problems have come about because of the change of the times objectively. some of them came simply because of political will and as a result of some of the possibly wrong decisions. i'm talking about the taxation sector, i'm talking about the banking sector, i'm talking about the economic governance and, of course, the energy sector. and i think that for europe and all countries to progress, we will have to change these decisions in the future. so i wish for political will, responsibility, and i hope that lithuania will be the country that does it.
dear president, it is a real pleasure to see you and the entire lithuanian team in the european parliament today and to have this debate. as we have worked together before the presidency, so i hope we will continue to work together for a successful presidency. i would like to draw attention to the baltic sea strategy, which was mentioned today. this is an important issue, which started in 2009 as a pilot project for a macro-regional strategy and has become a sectorial example, as today we have in parliament both the black sea strategy and the alpine and danube strategies. it is an important instrument for the baltic sea countries to effectively address common challenges in terms of improving water quality, economic growth, transport policy, and it is therefore essential to continue to work on better coordination. and we are very much looking forward to the european commission's assessment, just as we are looking forward to the council's conclusions, and i just hope that during the lithuanian presidency we will really take this issue to an even higher political level.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. it is very important that a common interinstitutional agreement on the eu's multiannual financial perspective 2014-2020 has been reached. the european parliament had already expressed its doubts about the mff ceiling, which the council had significantly reduced. these resources may not be sufficient to provide the eu with the necessary means to recover and strengthen in a coordinated manner from the current crisis. the reduction in the multiannual eu budget requires an increase in the flexibility of the mff 2014-2020 in order to take full advantage of the respective mff ceilings for commitments (eur 960 billion) and payments (eur 908,4 billion) set by the european council. the council endorsed the two main proposals put forward by parliament, namely the creation of a single payment margin and a single commitment margin, as this would allow unused appropriations to be automatically carried over from one financial year to the next. it is also of crucial importance that it was agreed to provide for a mandatory review and further revision of the next mff by the end of 2016 in order to allow the new commission and parliament to reassess the eu's political priorities, adapt the mff to new challenges and needs and take full account of the latest macroeconomic projections.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it expresses parliament's support for the recent interinstitutional compromise agreement on the future multiannual perspective of the eu for 2014-2020. the european parliament has called for a more efficient, transparent and consistent future multiannual eu budget, which will now set stricter requirements for the implementation of the eu's financial commitments. but most importantly, the european parliament won more and more consistent funding for education, research and support for the poorest. this will not only enable investment in these areas that are crucial to the eu's competitiveness and employment, but will also allow the european union to look after its citizens who have been hit hardest by the crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document as i welcome the political agreement reached at the highest political level on 27 june 2013 between parliament, the presidency of the council and the commission on the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020, after long and difficult negotiations, and in particular the efforts made by the irish presidency to reach this agreement. the negotiations have introduced a number of measures which will help to ensure that the new financial framework is effective, consistent, transparent and better aligned with the interests of eu citizens. the new measures relating to the revision of the mff, flexibility, own resources and budgetary integrity and transparency are particularly relevant and have been the focus of parliament's negotiations. i welcome the fact that more funding is being allocated to the youth employment initiative in the first years of 2014 and 2015, but that a strong focus should be placed on 2016 as well, as additional funding will be needed to ensure the sustainability and effectiveness of this programme. i believe that the committee on budgets, in cooperation with the committee on constitutional affairs, should draw the necessary conclusions and make new proposals for the further course of the negotiations in order to ensure the democratic and transparent nature of the whole budgetary procedure.
in writing. − today we have adopted a long-awaited document setting out the guidelines for the financing of eu activities for the next seven years. a compromise has been reached in the council. i particularly appreciate the fact that an agreement has been reached on a flexible mechanism for the distribution of payments, allowing unused funds to be carried over to the following year. another important aspect of the agreement is the funding and the source of the funds for the reduction of youth unemployment. even when tackling eu-wide issues, funds cannot be diverted from areas of vital national interest, such as energy security.
in writing. − agreements on matters of importance to the european states can no longer be delayed. they must be adopted in accordance with democratic procedures, be equally fair to all and be implemented unconditionally. i believe that the final political agreement on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework is a step forward. it is a pity that the lessons of the past financial period are still not being learned. the position and resolutions of the parliament were not duly taken into account in the adoption of the new agreement. it is also doubtful whether the conditions will be adequate to meet commitments at political and budgetary levels and not to take two steps backwards or sideways. the eu today faces a very difficult challenge to compete and survive in a globalised world. there are 25 million unemployed in the eu, of which about 5 million are young people under 30. however, the new agreement will not ensure a socially oriented policy that ensures the economic future of the citizens of the states. the extension of the retirement age will have very negative consequences. the eu's problems cannot be solved at the expense of society. we can't solve the secondary problems without solving the primary ones.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) shall develop harmonised requirements at international level to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles of the parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that a high level of safety and environmental protection is guaranteed in the use of such vehicles. the objective of this proposal is to simplify and accelerate the procedure for the commission representing the union to vote on unece regulations, thus speeding up the adoption of these acts on the basis of unece activities. this is important as the eu vehicle type-approval system is increasingly based on unece regulations which amend eu legislation. in addition, the faster adoption of legislation will allow for a faster response to requests from operators in the regulatory area. the adoption of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) has brought about a fundamental change in the decision-making procedures to be followed in defining the union's position in the voting on the unece regulations to be adopted and in the conclusion of agreements between the union and international organisations, and it is therefore necessary to align those decisions with the new procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's support for certain simplifications of production in the commission when voting on the unece regulations. this is important as the eu vehicle type-approval system is currently increasingly based on unece regulations which amend eu legislation. moreover, the faster adoption of legislation will allow for a faster response to requests from operators in the regulatory area. the proposal is in line with the objectives of the common commercial policy. by participating in the activities of the unece, the union shall contribute to the development and strengthening of a mechanism for the international harmonisation of technical regulations relating to vehicles and shall contribute to the promotion of international trade in motor vehicles.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because it aims to simplify and speed up the procedure for the commission representing the union to vote on the regulations of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), thus speeding up the adoption of these acts on the basis of unece activities. this will allow for a faster response to requests from operators in the regulatory area. the amendments to the treaties have substantially changed the decision-making procedures to be followed in defining the union's position in the voting on the regulations envisaged by the unece and in the conclusion of agreements between the union and international organisations. the draft decision aims to align council decision 97/836/ec with the decision-making procedure established by the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) in relation to international agreements. by participating in the activities of the unece, the union shall contribute to the development and strengthening of a mechanism for the international harmonisation of technical regulations relating to vehicles and shall contribute to the promotion of international trade in motor vehicles. regulatory harmonisation at international level is therefore one of the most effective means of avoiding barriers to trade, as manufacturers can rely on a common set of type-approval standards and their products will be recognised on different continents. the draft decision amends council decision 97/836/ec to take account of the changes to the decision-making procedures under the tfeu.
in writing. - i support the draft council decision submitted. this agreement on the conformity of equipment and parts of wheeled vehicles with safety requirements is of particular importance for manufacturers as it creates the right conditions for trade at international level. this should reduce their administrative and financial burden, as companies will be able to rely on a single set of requirements recognised worldwide. the uniform technical standards will ensure a high level of safety and environmental protection. it is also one of the most effective means of avoiding barriers to trade. it is worth noting that the current eu vehicle type-approval system is increasingly based on the regulations adopted by the united nations economic commission for europe. it is therefore essential that the eu can cooperate effectively and contribute to the promotion of international trade in motor vehicles.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) shall develop harmonised requirements at international level to remove technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles of the parties to the revised 1958 agreement and to ensure that a high level of safety and environmental protection is guaranteed in the use of such vehicles. the objective of this proposal is to simplify and accelerate the procedure for the commission representing the union to vote on unece regulations, thus speeding up the adoption of these acts on the basis of unece activities. this is important as the eu vehicle type-approval system is increasingly based on unece regulations which amend eu legislation. in addition, the faster adoption of legislation will allow for a faster response to requests from operators in the regulatory area. the adoption of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) has brought about a fundamental change in the decision-making procedures to be followed in defining the union's position in the voting on the unece regulations to be adopted and in the conclusion of agreements between the union and international organisations, and it is therefore necessary to align those decisions with the new procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it expresses parliament's support for certain simplifications of production in the commission when voting on the unece regulations. this is important as the eu vehicle type-approval system is currently increasingly based on unece regulations which amend eu legislation. moreover, the faster adoption of legislation will allow for a faster response to requests from operators in the regulatory area. the proposal is in line with the objectives of the common commercial policy. by participating in the activities of the unece, the union shall contribute to the development and strengthening of a mechanism for the international harmonisation of technical regulations relating to vehicles and shall contribute to the promotion of international trade in motor vehicles.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because, by council decision 2000/125/ec of 31 january 2000, the union acceded to the parallel agreement on the basis of the unece activities. by participating in the activities of the unece, the union shall contribute to the development and strengthening of a mechanism for the international harmonisation of technical regulations relating to vehicles and shall contribute to the promotion of international trade in motor vehicles. the purpose of this proposal is to simplify and accelerate the procedure for the vote by the commission representing the union on unece regulations, thus speeding up the adoption of these acts on the basis of unece activities. the draft decision aims to align council decision 2000/125/ec with the decision-making procedure established by the tfeu in relation to international agreements. the proposal is in line with the objectives of the common commercial policy as set out in article 217 tfeu. regulatory harmonisation at international level is therefore one of the most effective ways of avoiding barriers to trade.
in writing. - i agree with the council's decision. it is essential that uniform safety and environmental protection standards are ensured throughout the union. it should be noted that only the union has the right to vote on international documents such as draft unece rules and general technical regulations. in this context, and in order to ensure efficient and constructive decision-making, it is appropriate to empower the commission to simplify and accelerate the voting procedure for unece regulations. this would allow for faster adoption of legislation and more rapid response to requests in the regulatory area. in addition, the incorporation of those acts into the union type-approval system for motor vehicles would be accelerated. this would reduce the administrative burden on producers. they would benefit more from the fact that the products of the apartments are produced not only for the domestic market but also for the international market, without requiring their specific national type-approval in each country.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the european union has established legislative and budgetary measures to provide additional support to workers affected by the major structural changes in world trade patterns, which are aggravated by the economic, financial and social crisis, and to assist their reintegration into the labour market, through its european globalisation adjustment fund. at the initiative of the commission, up to 0,35% of the annual egf allocation may be used each year for technical assistance to finance monitoring, information, administrative and technical assistance, as well as audit, control and evaluation activities necessary for the implementation of the egf regulation. this application meets the criteria for financial support set out in the egf regulation and i therefore support the commission's proposal to provide eur 750 000 for the financing of technical assistance.
in writing. − this fund was established to provide additional assistance to workers who suffer damage as a result of major structural changes in the world trade system. the commission has adopted a new proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in order to finance technical assistance to the commission itself. purpose to finance monitoring, information and advice to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf. i abstained on the measures proposed by the commission, which the commission considers should be financed as technical assistance. i think that in particular, we should not forget to strengthen the communication with all the actors involved in the application for egf support.
in writing. − i believe that the level of the egf allocation should not be lower than the current annual amount. it is also essential to provide for the possibility of providing financial assistance to workers made redundant as a result of the crisis in order to help them reintegrate into the labour market. this exceptional provision should be applied in conjunction with aid for workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the world trade system. financial assistance should be dynamic and available as quickly and efficiently as possible. on the other hand, more attention needs to be paid to technical assistance, which is necessary for the implementation of the egf regulation. it is essential to ensure that technical assistance funds are used effectively, preventing any misuse or waste. given the role of technical assistance, a comprehensive impact assessment and a system of monitoring and control should be applied in support of and enhancing the use of the egf.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this regulation but did not support the amendments proposed by the rapporteur. olaf is the sole and main eu institution responsible for the protection of the eu's financial interests. in order to strengthen the independence of olaf, to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of olaf investigations and to ensure a better protection of the eu's financial interests and to combat fraud, corruption and other illegal activities affecting those interests, the commission put forward a proposal for the revision of the current regulation back in 2006. the interinstitutional negotiations lasted for seven years before an agreement was finally reached on 25 july 2012. the new amendments would improve the functioning of olaf by providing for simpler, more transparent, shorter procedures, by defining more clearly the responsibilities and scope of the director-general of olaf, by extending the term of office of the director-general of olaf for a non-renewable period of up to 7 years, by consolidating the functions of the supervisory committee, the duration of the term of office and the powers to ensure that olaf can operate independently.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is the european parliament's endorsement of the reform of the european anti-fraud office (olaf), which the eu institutions have been seeking to agree on for six years. the new wording of the olaf regulation will strengthen the role and powers of this office, which investigates cases of misuse of eu funds. the review of the regulation has focused on strengthening the procedural rights of persons involved in olaf investigations, as well as on improving the effectiveness of olaf investigations and cooperation with partners (eu institutions and bodies, member states, international organisations). the proposal also aims to clarify the role of the olaf supervisory committee and to define the exchange of views with the institutions at political level on olaf's policy priorities.
in writing. − the purpose of the proposal is to amend regulation (ec) no 1073/1999 of the european parliament and of the council concerning investigations conducted by the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the main focus is on strengthening the procedural rights of those involved in olaf investigations, increasing the efficiency of investigations and improving cooperation with partners. the proposal also aims to clarify the role of the olaf supervisory committee. the rapporteur draws attention to the poor reporting procedure and its limited accessibility to the relevant committees and calls on the council and the commission to cooperate with parliament in order to ensure the best possible outcome of the olaf reform.
in writing. - i agree with the council's position at first reading. in order to strengthen the capacity of olaf to combat fraud, its activities should be continuously improved. in particular, the efficiency of the investigations carried out should be improved by ensuring that the office continues to carry out investigations independently. cooperation must also be strengthened, as the success of the office's activities depends heavily on partners in the member states, third countries, international organisations and the eu institutions. it is essential that more attention is paid to strengthening the procedural rights of persons involved in olaf investigations. they must be guaranteed their fundamental rights. in addition, a rigorous review process must be established. particular attention should be paid to the olaf supervisory committee. it is worth noting that this committee plays a crucial role in improving the efficiency, effectiveness and accountability of olaf.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the rules applicable to depositaries laid down in the ucits directive have not changed since 1985. the ucits master rule requires that all assets of the ucits fund be entrusted to the depositary. the depositary shall be liable under national law for losses resulting from the failure to fulfil its obligations. the ucits directive shall contain a reference to national law which further specifies those obligations. this reference leaves a wide margin of discretion to interpret the depositary's obligations and the liability for negligence in discharging them differently. different interpretations have led to different approaches across the european union and therefore to different levels of protection for ucits investors in different jurisdictions. recent high-profile cases such as madoff and lehman brothers have highlighted a fundamental change in the field of ucits: the ucits provisions for depositaries have remained unchanged, while the ucits investment environment has evolved, and ucits have been able to invest in a wider range of financial assets that can be more complex, as well as issued and held in a depository outside the eu (for example in emerging markets). the new rules will, inter alia, ensure that each ucits fund will be assigned a single depositary. this rule aims to ensure that a single fund does not use the services of several depositaries. it also aims to ensure sufficient harmonisation of the relevant regulatory requirements of the different member states and to further define the tasks and obligations of depositaries, the legal entities that may be designated as depositaries and the responsibilities of depositaries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it supports the european parliament's amendments to the directive on the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities, which are designed to take account of market developments and the experience gained so far by market participants and supervisors. in particular, this directive aims at harmonising national provisions relating to the obligations and liability of depositaries, remuneration policies and sanctions. the amendments to this directive were initiated to address the potential adverse impact of poorly designed remuneration structures on sound risk management and control of the risks assumed by individuals. the revised directive will aim to impose a clear obligation on management companies of collective investment undertakings to develop and implement remuneration policies and practices for certain categories of employees that are consistent with sound and effective risk management.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. it should be noted that the wage policy in place has had a significant impact on the scale of the crisis, which makes it necessary to restore consumer confidence and ensure the functioning of an efficient and well-integrated financial system. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the granting of authorisations for the placing on the market of securities issued by undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities. in this context, it is necessary to provide greater legal certainty and to ensure a uniform legal regulation. common provisions relating to depositary functions, remuneration policies and sanctions should apply throughout the eu. remuneration, costs and charges should be proportionate to the sound, effective management of risk. it is also essential that the variable remuneration component be linked to the size of the fund or the value of the assets under management. all entities responsible for remuneration policy shall be independent and competent in the management of risk and remuneration.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution and the referral back to the environment committee. the eu emissions trading system is the most important tool to reduce industrial pollution in the eu in a cost-effective and efficient way. in 2008, emissions fell by 10% after the start of the second trading period. the initial objective was to create a market-based measure to stimulate the price of carbon dioxide, thereby encouraging investment in low-carbon technology and renewable energy. however, the decrease in emissions in the second trading period could be strongly influenced by the economic downturn, which reduced economic activity and production. by the end of 2011, there was a surplus of 955 million allowances and this is expected to increase. as the surplus of allowances far exceeds demand, the price of carbon dioxide has fallen from eur 30 per tonne to eur 7 per tonne. this decline in the price of carbon is in contradiction with the increase in sustainable scientific and technological innovation and therefore reduces the incentive to invest in low-carbon technologies and increases the risk of the european union becoming dependent on carbon-intensive infrastructure. however, this issue is of particular importance for the eu industry as sudden changes in this market can have a negative impact on the competitiveness of the eu industry as a whole. i believe that this issue needs to be considered in great detail and that an effective compromise needs to be found between the need to ensure the competitiveness of eu industry and eu climate change policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a contribution by parliament to the amendment of directive 2003/87/ec to clarify the provisions on the timing of the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances. the eu emissions trading system is the key tool to reduce industrial pollution in the eu in a cost-effective and efficient way. despite the fact that emissions have decreased since the introduction of the eu emissions trading system, there are currently significant inconsistencies in the system. in recent years, the market has experienced a large surplus of allowances, which has led to a sharp fall in their market price. this decrease in the price of allowances is in contrast to the significant increase in sustainable scientific and technological innovation and therefore becomes a disincentive to invest in low-carbon technology and increases the risk of the european union becoming dependent on carbon-intensive infrastructure. the report seeks to address the inconsistency in the current eu emissions trading system and proposes to adopt short-term and long-term measures.
in writing. − today we have just confirmed our position allowing the commission to intervene temporarily in the functioning of the ets. i can repeat my opinion that this is a necessary solution, but it does not solve the problem at its core. i therefore urge all stakeholders to present the guidelines for the ets reform as soon as possible.
in writing. − for legal clarity and market predictability and stability, it is essential that allowances are allocated optimally and fairly. in particular, the timing of the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances should ensure fair competition. in addition, a properly balanced market must be in place, as too much short-term supply may lead to excessive price fluctuations. at eu level, we need to support the development of innovative low-carbon technologies. to address the challenges of the transition to a low-carbon economy as effectively as possible. in addition, common measures should be established to reduce costs and carbon emissions in energy-intensive industrial sectors in a cost-effective and cost-effective manner. only through joint efforts and effective measures will the eu have an effective emissions trading system.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in the light of recent crises such as the 2009 h1n1 pandemic, the 2010 volcanic ash cloud and the 2011 e. coli outbreak, the commission has put forward a proposal to establish measures and structures to effectively protect all eu citizens from a wide range of cross-border health threats. the commission proposal will extend and improve the system for the early warning and response of communicable diseases established in 1998 to strengthen the union's capacity to respond to major cross-border health threats by providing it with resources, networks and structures complementing the measures already in place to combat these threats. i share the european parliament's view that, given the global scale of such crises or pandemics, it is necessary to strengthen the cooperation of the actors in the system with the competent international organisations, in particular the world health organisation (who).
in writing. − the commission presented a proposal on 8 december 2011 to establish a set of tools and structures to effectively protect all eu citizens against a wide range of cross-border health threats. this proposal for a decision builds on existing structures by supplementing them with the following measures: extension of the risk assessment and coordination measures currently applied to communicable diseases to cover all threats of biological, chemical or ecological origin; strengthening of the role of the health security committee to better coordinate crisis response measures; better preparedness for crises in the member states in coordination with the ec; possibility of recognising a european 'public health emergency' to speed up the provision of medicines needed to deal with a crisis; adoption by the european commission of emergency international measures at eu level in the event of an exceptional situation. for the sake of clarity and legal certainty, this decision repeals decision no 2119/98/ec on the establishment of a community network for the epidemiological surveillance and control of communicable diseases. i appreciate the proposal and have therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. − transboundary health threats are associated with human pathogens. the general hygiene measures recommended by the world health organisation can be very useful in reducing the spread of these pathogens. national preparedness and response planning can help to reduce their spread. to achieve greater efficiency, it is useful to collect such information within the institutions of the european union, thus enabling member states to exchange knowledge and experience quickly and efficiently.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. it is essential that all eu citizens are effectively protected against cross-border health threats and have access to the necessary medicines in a timely manner. the eu must have an effective crisis management model that prevents serious economic consequences and ensures the independence and transparency of aid in this context, it is necessary to strengthen the capacity to respond to major cross-border threats to health. to ensure that the eu is adequately prepared to respond to potential threats, it is necessary to establish strict coordination, exchange of information and mutual consultation on preparedness and response planning, response procedures and rapid alert and response systems. in order to avoid negative consequences, cooperation with the competent international organisations and third countries should be strengthened. moreover, conflicts of interest should be avoided.
in writing. − recent health crises like the h1n1 ‘pandemic’ in 2009 or e. coli bacteria in 2011 have shown that the ability to respond to these types of incidents is vital. the measures in place at present do not allow for an appropriate reaction to these issues. misuse of medication and the sale of defective medical devices would prevent healthcare providers from responding effectively to a health crisis. i support the extension of the eu-wide early warning and response system to help improve our ability to fight serious health risks. i welcome the goal of increasing access to medication in the event of a european health emergency as well as access to vaccines. each member state must have approved procedures in place to spot and treat individual issues, but eu-wide measures are also necessary to coordinate treatment and prevent any further transmission or spread. i voted in favour of this report as i believe these measures must be taken as soon as possible to ensure readiness when the next health threat arises.
in writing. − in june 2011, the commission presented a package of proposals for reforming the union's own resources system. one of the main ideas was to harmonise the legislation on the taxation of financial transactions in the eu member states by introducing a financial transaction tax (ftt). the commission proposed that two thirds of the revenue from this levy be transferred to the eu budget as own resources. after several months of negotiations between the member states, it became clear that the rules of unanimity in the field of taxation made it impossible to adopt the fsm in the near future. in its report on the commission's initial proposal, the european parliament stated that it would support the proposal to introduce fsm in several member states under the enhanced cooperation procedure. in october 2012, eleven member states decided to pursue the establishment of fis, for the first time under the enhanced cooperation procedure in the field of taxation. although the fms will not be applied in all member states at this stage, the revenue from its collection in the participating countries (estimated at eur 31 billion per year) could be used in full or in part to finance the union budget, while the respective contributions based on gross national income (gni) of those countries would be reduced and contribute to the financing of the union budget from own resources.
in writing. − in 2010, the european parliament, in its report on the financial, economic and social crisis (mid-term report) by mr beres, called for the first time for a financial transaction tax (ftt). in september 2011, the european commission failed to adopt a legislative act on the application of fms at eu level. it was updated in 2012 following a request from 11 member states. in december 2012, the european parliament formally approved the request of eleven member states, and in january 2013 the economic and financial affairs council also endorsed this proposal. in february 2013, the european commission approved a revised proposal for the establishment of fms in 11 member states. i voted in favour of this proposal because the long-standing lack of regulation of financial services has come to the fore in the wake of the global financial crisis. the crisis quickly spread to the real economy and had serious consequences for growth, employment and public finances. to avoid a recurrence of economic crises, decisive and consistent steps are needed to contain them or at least to minimise their consequences for member states, the financial sector and our citizens.
in writing. − the ftt will provide an independent source of eu funding. it will also encourage the creation of a common financial market. enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transaction tax should prevent distortions of the tax system and avoidance and evasion of that tax. the measures taken must ensure fair competition and reduce the risk of financial activities being outsourced. it should be noted that the broad tax base and the two low tax rates reduce the harmful distortive effects of the tax. it should be noted that the scope of this tax excludes not only the primary but also other areas of daily financial activity of importance to citizens and businesses. the uniform rates and collection methods applied will ensure the prevention of fraud and tax evasion. it is also essential to ensure that the revenue from the levy is used to finance national and european investment programmes. this will help to ensure a rapid recovery of the economy and employment.
in writing. − i have endorsed the commission's proposal that latvia adopt the euro on 1 january 2014 and join the euro area. in its resolution, the european parliament calls on the latvian government to continue to apply prudent fiscal policy measures and to pursue a common policy of promoting stability by anticipating and reducing possible future macroeconomic imbalances and risks to price stability identified by the commission in the warning mechanism report, and calls on the latvian government to address these issues and to strengthen joint efforts to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 national strategy.
in writing. − this decision did not become a huge celebration in our neighbouring country, as the majority of latvian society is against the introduction of the euro. but is this what is best for a society whose majority is opposed to the euro? this reluctance is by no means based solely on human fears, stubbornness, or patriotic feelings. the first reason is that people do not know what is in store for them or why the euro is so urgently needed now. it is commendable that our neighbours have managed to manage the consequences of the crisis and meet the criteria for adopting the euro, but in view of the public opposition to this step, i abstained.
in writing. − latvia has successfully emerged from a severe economic recession and achieved sustainable and long-term results. the growing economy has made it possible to meet the criteria for the euro in a satisfactory manner. i hope that latvia has chosen the best timing and means for this important moment. the urgency of this matter is unjustified and can have extremely painful consequences. i believe that latvia will be able to continue to ensure fiscal consolidation, a stronger institutional environment and a reduction in the shadow economy. although employment has declined somewhat due to good growth rates, latvia still needs to make greater efforts to reduce long-term unemployment. it is a pity that the introduction of the euro did not receive sufficient support from the latvian citizens. on a matter of such national importance, only the people should have the final say. i would hope that the introduction of the euro will not cause public outrage. people don't know what's coming. solidarity between the authorities and the public is essential.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in 2011, more than 30 000 people were killed in road accidents in the european union and nearly 1,5 million people were reported injured (more than 250 000 people were seriously injured). more than half of all serious injuries occur in urban areas, particularly among pedestrians, motorcyclists, cyclists (including electric bicycles) and other vulnerable road users. pedestrians and cyclists account for 50% of all deaths and a significant proportion of serious injuries in urban areas. i support the european parliament's calls for better implementation of the various existing legislation and measures to reduce the impact of collisions, increase road safety and reduce serious injuries, support the development of safe and smart road infrastructure and combat drunk driving and drug-related driving, and exchange best practices in the assessment and rehabilitation of road traffic offenders.
in writing. − the main causes of road traffic fatalities and serious injuries are equipment failure, road construction, poor road maintenance and driver behaviour, including the ability to choose speed. speed is directly linked to the severity of injuries and some member states are even considering increasing speed limits on motorways. i support the commission's initiative to attach great importance to actions relating to serious injuries in the field of road safety. the commission has established a common eu definition of serious injuries based on the universally accepted classification of injuries according to the maximum abbreviated injury scale. member states shall apply without delay the common eu definition of serious road traffic injury and collect and report statistics by type of transport, including vulnerable road users, and by type of road infrastructure, in 2014 on the basis thereof. the commission should set a broad-based target of reducing road traffic injuries by 40% between 2014 and 2020 and, as a long-term objective, pursue the overall vision of a totally safe road, on the basis of the data collected. i welcome the priorities set by the commission in the development of an overall strategy to address the impact of collisions, the development of a traffic accident management strategy, first aid and emergency services and long-term rehabilitation processes, and therefore the commission should implement these priorities as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. road safety is a matter of great concern to society. the eu's road safety policy must ensure that road users are careful, respect each other and respect the rules of the road. it is essential that the vision of a totally safe traffic is implemented at eu level. it is worth noting that road safety also ensures long-term mobility. it is closely linked to the fields of energy, environment, employment, education, youth, public health, research, innovation and technology, justice, insurance, trade and foreign policy. it is essential that the rights of vulnerable road users are properly protected in the eu. i believe that a common definition of injury suffered in a road traffic accident should be applied throughout the eu. this will allow for better monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of road safety policy. only by working together can we reduce the number of people injured in road accidents. it is therefore appropriate to harmonise the road traffic rules, road signs and road marking of the member states. it should be noted that speed is a major factor in the increase in road fatalities and greenhouse gas emissions. therefore, the enforcement of road traffic rules and the deterrence of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs should be strengthened.
in writing. − the recent events in hungary have shocked the whole of europe the democratic character of the country has been called into question. it seems that there was a lack of transparency, openness and consensus in the drafting and adoption of the basic law of hungary. however, i do not support the proposal to deprive hungary of the right to vote on eu matters. this is a matter of national policy for hungary, which the european parliament is not authorised to influence.
in writing. − in every country, hungary and others alike, the principles of separation of powers, judicial independence, respect for private and family life and the right to effective legal protection must be strictly respected. any democratic institutional system must be based on the principle of the separation of powers and a system of checks and balances. no legal regulation may infringe fundamental rights or undermine mutual trust between member states. in this context, a monitoring system should be applied on a regular basis to ensure that member states properly respect the union's fundamental values, democratic requirements and the rule of law. it should be noted that the eu's general principles are not only political commitments but also legal indicators against which the eu legal system and the member states' legal systems are assessed. they must therefore be respected at both cross-border and domestic level. a proper balance must be struck between respect for national identity and presence in the eu.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in recent years, natural and man-made disasters have increased in severity, complexity and impact in europe. most of the natural disasters caused by floods have recently occurred in many central european countries, including austria, the czech republic, germany, hungary, poland, slovakia, france and spain. the floods have caused serious damage to cities and municipalities, infrastructure, businesses, agriculture and rural areas, and, by destroying parts of the natural and cultural heritage, have also caused deaths and injuries and forced thousands of people to flee their homes. the european union solidarity fund (esf) was set up to respond to major national disasters and provide financial assistance to disaster-stricken countries. the european union civil protection mechanism also helps member states to cooperate and minimise the impact of an emergency. however, there is a further need to strengthen the union's preventive capacity to respond to all types of natural disasters and to improve the effectiveness and coordination of the various union measures for the sustainable prevention of natural disasters.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because most of the natural disasters caused by floods have recently occurred in many central european countries. in recent years, europe has experienced a rapid increase in the number, severity, complexity and impact of natural and man-made disasters. floods have caused serious damage to cities and municipalities, infrastructure, businesses, agriculture and rural areas, and have destroyed part of the natural and cultural heritage, as well as killing and injuring people and forcing thousands to flee their homes. it is therefore necessary to undertake sustainable reconstruction of areas destroyed or damaged by disasters in order to compensate for their economic, social and environmental losses. the commission and the member states shall pay particular attention to the planning and review of sustainable land use policies, ecosystem uptake capacities and best practices, and the improvement of the capacity of flood control and drainage systems. investments in flood prevention under the relevant programmes require adequate financial resources as they are an important tool enabling member states' governments to develop and implement flood prevention policies. investments in disaster prevention support should be carried out in accordance with an ecosystem-based approach. it is necessary to provide for the necessary flexibility in the member states in the formulation of programmes to support the rehabilitation of affected areas and to select the most appropriate projects.
in writing. − this year floods have caused a lot of damage in european countries: they have affected cities, municipalities, infrastructure, agriculture. some of the natural and cultural heritage has been destroyed, people have been injured, and thousands have been forced to leave their homes. the key is not only to repair the damage but also to prevent future floods that are likely to worsen. it is necessary to develop policies for sustainable land use, to increase the water-absorption capacity of ecosystems and to allocate funds to increase the capacity of flood control and drainage systems.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. it should be noted that the risk of flooding is constantly increasing. the recent floods in europe have had a devastating impact on human health, the environment, cultural heritage and economic activity. in this context, it is essential that a common strategic flood preparedness and response framework is in place across the eu. it is necessary to improve the capacity of flood control and drainage systems and to adopt other most cost-effective means of flood protection. it is worth noting that the european civil protection mechanism plays a key role in providing assistance to areas affected by disasters. it is therefore essential to simplify the rules and procedures for its application, as the consequences of floods are becoming more severe and complex. international and cross-border risk management strategies and cooperation with third countries are the basis for effective flood prevention. it should be noted that emergency policy will not be effective without adequate funding. therefore, appropriate financial assistance to mitigate the adverse effects of the floods should be provided in a timely manner.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the financial crisis was triggered by a weak european regulatory framework and excessive risk-taking, excessive levels of indebtedness, insufficient capital and liquidity requirements, an overly complex banking system as a whole, an overly large banking sector in small economies, inadequate control and supervision, excessive expansion of derivatives trading, mis-rating, excessive bonus schemes and inadequate risk management. i agree with the suggestions in the ep resolution that structural reform of the banking sector must reduce excessive risk, ensure competition, improve corporate governance and encourage banks to establish more transparent organisational structures, increase accountability and strengthen a reliable and sustainable remuneration system, and enable effective bank recovery and resolution.
in writing. − in february 2012, the commission set up a high-level expert group to examine whether further structural reforms of the eu banking sector would help reduce the likelihood and impact of bank failures and ensure the continuity of key economic functions in the event of a bank failure, in order to better protect retail banking customers. the experts' report indicates that the financial crisis was caused by excessive risk-taking, excessive leverage, insufficient capital and liquidity requirements and excessive complexity of the banking system as a whole. i voted in favour of this document because it is necessary to continue and implement structural reforms, in particular the legal separation of certain risky financial activities within the banking group from deposit-taking banks. separation of activities is the most effective way to ensure simpler and more transparent banking structures. it is essential that the reform of the eu banking structure establishes a safe, stable and efficient banking system, with a particular focus on lending to smes and start-ups. in order to change the banking culture, the document sets out the following key principles: reducing system complexity, increasing competition, reducing risky and commercial links, improving corporate governance, creating a sound remuneration system, creating the conditions for effective bank recovery and restructuring, increasing bank capital and lending to the real economy.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution. it should be noted that the eu banking sector has been facing radical structural changes, which require not only the strengthening of the european financial supervision and crisis management structure, but also the implementation of substantial structural reforms in banks. we need to ensure that the eu has a safe, stable, efficient and effective banking system. banking problems should not be solved at the expense of the taxpayer. first, fair competition must be ensured and the risk of redundancy reduced. banks should be encouraged to develop more transparent organisational structures and enhance accountability. it is essential that the eu single market is adequately protected against fragmentation. i think the commission should make a greater effort to establish a depositors' priority rule. in addition, in order to strengthen consumer protection, an agreement on the deposit guarantee schemes directive should be reached as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. last year, i was appointed as the draftsman of the 2010 annual report of the committee on budgetary control. it should be noted that only a small part of the shortcomings identified in my report last year have been addressed. however, the collection of data from member states on possible and detected and detected fraud remains a major problem, which has been ongoing for several decades. the failure of member states to provide data in a timely manner, or the inaccuracy and incomparability of the data they provide, means that there is no way to objectively assess the real extent of fraud in the eu member states, and that the ep, the commission and olaf cannot properly carry out their functions in relation to the assessment of the situation and the submission of further proposals. such a situation must not be tolerated and the commission must take full responsibility for the recovery of the funds wrongfully paid and collect all the necessary harmonised data that can be compared, establishing reporting principles in all member states. it is also incomprehensible that olaf does not receive from the member states information on the action taken when olaf has transmitted information on fraud to the responsible authority of the member state concerned. these issues are also reflected in the 2011 report, and i therefore urge the commission to take real action in the area of data collection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it expresses the european parliament's position on the 2011 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests. fighting fraud. in its report, the european parliament welcomes the commission's annual report, but regrets that it contains only data from the member states. parliament notes that the data provided by member states alone should not be used as a basis for the annual report, as member states define similar offences differently and do not all collect detailed statistics of a similar nature using common criteria, making it difficult to obtain reliable and comparable statistics at eu level. for this reason, it is not possible to assess the actual overall extent of irregularities and fraud in individual member states or, as parliament has repeatedly requested, to identify and rank member states with the highest levels of irregularities and fraud.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because the protection of the financial interests of the european union (eu) is a priority for the european institutions and for all of us. the commission must closely monitor the effectiveness of the supervisory and control systems in place in the member states and ensure that information on the extent of irregularities in the member states reflects the real situation. member states do not provide data on fraud and irregularities in a timely manner or their data are not accurate. in order to obtain all the necessary and comparable data, uniform reporting principles in all member states should be adopted as soon as possible. this would allow the real extent of fraud in the member states to be seen and the member states where it is highest to be identified and appropriate measures taken. it would also allow the member states to monitor the implementation of the investigative recommendations of the european anti-fraud office (olaf). the weaknesses prevent an objective assessment of the real extent of fraud in the eu member states and the proper performance by parliament, the commission and olaf of their functions relating to the assessment of the situation and the submission of follow-up proposals. this situation must therefore not be tolerated and the commission must take full responsibility for the recovery of the funds wrongfully paid and collect all the necessary harmonised data that can be compared to establish reporting principles in all member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because fraud is a phenomenon that harms the eu's financial interests and must be eliminated without delay. the fight against tax fraud must be a priority for both the eu and each member state. in particular, fair, sustainable and more citizen-friendly tax systems are needed to combat tax evasion effectively. it should be noted that high taxation has particularly harmful effects and increases the potential for tax evasion and fraud. businesses are failing, businesses are moving to more favorable countries, and unemployment is rising. but tax evasion must not become the only way to survive. the fight against tax evasion and fraud must be legal. it shall not infringe the privacy and personal freedom and other fundamental rights of citizens. but prevention and detection alone are not enough. the need for effective law enforcement remains. it is necessary to ensure better cooperation and coordination in the application of strong sanctions and dissuasive measures against unfair practices.
in writing. − in november 2010, the european court of auditors stated for the tenth time that it did not have sufficient assurance on payments under all parts of the general budget. as early as 2005, the commission decided to take steps to obtain a positive statement of assurance (sfa). in june 2005, the commission adopted an action plan for an integrated internal control system, which was launched in 2006. this european parliament working document therefore aims to assess the progress and results achieved by the european commission in implementing the action plan and raises questions about the future of the integrated internal control system. i agree that there must be proper control and audit in the commission, but it must be acknowledged that this is much more difficult to do in the commission than in other eu institutions, since in that case the member states must be fully involved in this reform, as they now manage 80% of eu funds under shared management. the managing authorities of the member states are required to submit their accounts to the commission annually, together with a management declaration, their annual final audit report and a summary of the checks carried out, and the opinion of the independent audit body. member states may provide signed voluntary declarations, but in practice the main problem with the current system of annual summaries is related to the reliability of the data provided by the member states. i support the calls for a common form for voluntary declarations and a mandatory form for information to be provided in order to allow the information to be compared and used in the audit.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. effective integrated internal controls ensure the efficient execution of the eu budget. it is essential that both the commission and the individual member states make further progress in improving the quality of financial management. greater attention should be paid to simplification of legislation. in addition, urgent action is needed to reduce the persistent level of errors and to increase the accuracy and reliability of the data provided. it should be noted that the complex and unclear rules in place create an enabling environment for fraud. they are also the main obstacles to the effective implementation of programmes. i think that countries should pay more attention to strengthening their supervisory and control systems. the principles of sound financial management, which ensure the transparent use of taxpayers' funds, must be implemented in order to restore public confidence.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there is no doubt that the economic crisis in the european union is having a negative impact on access to care for the most vulnerable groups in society. the introduction of austerity measures that directly or indirectly affect this group of people is a cause for concern. the priorities for tackling the crisis should therefore be redefined so that the social dimension is an integral part of the union's response to the crisis. the sector of care services for the elderly, physically disabled or with learning difficulties is particularly in need of support. savings may not be used for projects supporting children and young people, as well as persons with special social needs. the reductions in expenditure should not affect those in need of care or those providing it. the fight against deepening poverty and social exclusion should become the domain not only of individual countries but also of the eu institutions. the rapporteur's proposals, which call on the commission and the council to take action to increase funding for programmes targeting the most vulnerable groups in society, are therefore worthy of support. however, it cannot be accepted that some social security systems, whose structure is based on the concept of the family, are less able to cope with the increased difficulties caused by the crisis. this is a mistake, because the family is the first line of support and help for people in difficult situations.
in writing. − following the inaugural meeting of the implementation committee, the ep delegation decided to give the ep negotiating team the mandate to open negotiations. four tripartite dialogues were held and a political agreement was reached. on the evening of 28 may 2013, a meeting of the conciliation committee on macro-financial assistance to georgia took place. the conciliation committee approved the final compromise text. the main objective of this package was to reach agreement on a procedure for providing macro-financial assistance to georgia (eur 46 million) to help it stabilise its economy and meet its balance of payments needs. the council and parliament have diverged on this issue. in the parliament's view, this should be done by the advisory procedure as proposed by the commission, but the council considers that the examination procedure would be more appropriate. instead of the tripartite dialogue, an informal meeting of parliament and the council took place, at which an informal agreement was reached on the 'actual text'. in this context, it was agreed that the advisory procedure would apply for macro-financial assistance up to eur 90 million and that the examination procedure would apply for amounts higher. other main aspects of the compromise can be summarised as follows: an agreement was also reached on a stricter wording relating to the payment of the aid. finally, it was agreed to include a recital in the decision on macro-financial assistance to georgia explaining that the application of the advisory committee procedure is approved as a general rule where the aid does not exceed eur 90 million. i voted for this proposal.
in writing. − i supported the proposal as there is a need for greater exchange of information on cybersecurity between member states in the context of growing concern about possible cyberattacks. there is a great urgency to address cybersecurity at eu level through coordinated action by member states. it is also essential to act with urgency and to strengthen the coordination of decisions, initiatives and programmes at eu level. capacity building and enhanced cooperation should be supported to increase the level of information security.
in writing. − cybercrime is a rapidly growing threat to european security. one out of every four pcs is subject to this type of attack and it poses a great danger to computer infrastructure. cybercrime impacts millions of people as well as businesses, has cost eur 300 billion in damages, and 88 % of users in the eu have suffered from identity theft. the internet is an international system, meaning attacks against information systems have become increasingly cross-border. this demands greater cooperation between member states. common sanctions must be agreed upon as well as similar legal punishments for these crimes. i voted in favour of this report because it outlines new measures to address the growing threat. more effort will be put into prosecuting organised crime’s use of it attacks and those that hide their identities while perpetrating a cybercrime. police forces and legal entities will be taught how these crimes are carried out so that they can better investigate them. however, it is important that, even as security is strengthened, the openness of the internet and any data collected are given full protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because we have high standards of personal data protection and we must strive to maintain or even raise them. the resolution expresses grave concern about prism and other similar programmes, strongly condemns the spying on eu missions and calls on the us to provide the eu with all information on the subject without delay. parliament also expressed serious concern that similar monitoring programmes might be in place in eu countries (uk, sweden, the netherlands and germany). meps call on the commission to examine whether such programmes are compatible with eu law and express concern about the powers of the secret services in other eu countries, such as poland, to carry out interception. eu countries must speed up work on the data protection package and the commission and us authorities must immediately resume negotiations on a framework agreement on personal data protection. the final agreement should 'guarantee eu citizens the same access to the us court system as us citizens'.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because citizens are directly represented at union level in the european parliament. every citizen has the right to participate in the democratic life of the union. the document calls on political parties at all levels to establish democratic and transparent procedures for the selection of their candidates for the posts of member of the european parliament and president of the commission. member states are recommended to take all necessary steps to implement effectively the agreed measures on assistance to citizens wishing to vote or stand as candidates in elections in a member state other than that of their nationality. i believe that these and other electoral changes will further strengthen the concept of democratic, free elections, which will undoubtedly contribute to the development of democracy in the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because, in the current economic and financial situation, the essential role of public services in the european union is more evident than ever. in areas such as health care, childcare or care for the elderly, assistance for the disabled or social housing. these services provide citizens with a basic social protection system and help to promote social cohesion. public services in the field of education, training and employment play an important role in the implementation of the agenda for economic growth and job creation. i believe that all countries must have the possibility to develop, maintain and regulate public services of general interest.
in writing. − the european parliament deplores the recent measures adopted by the norwegian government, which it regards as protectionist and trade-restrictive and clearly contrary to the provisions and spirit of the bilateral agreement. it also regrets that the norwegian government has adopted these measures without consulting the relevant eu institutions. i voted in favour of this document because i doubt the economic logic behind these measures, which could reduce trade and would therefore affect all countries, particularly norwegian consumers, and in the long term also norwegian farmers. the commission should assess the possible negative consequences for eu exporters and farmers of the higher duties applied. on the basis of the above considerations, it is proposed that the norwegian government should withdraw these measures. the government of norway is invited to follow the example of iceland in liberalising its trade in agricultural products with the union. the commission must therefore continue negotiations with the norwegian authorities in order to reach a mutually acceptable solution for the import/export of agricultural products. it also asks the commission to indicate the measures it intends to take in the event that norway refuses to revoke its decision. in all this, the ep recalls norway's commitment to the internal market, especially in the light of recent initiatives such as single market acts i and ii. notes that the norwegian government itself has recognised that an efficient single market is the basis for future economic growth and job creation;
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because it is essential to unlock the full potential of the digital single market in order to create a competitive and dynamic eu knowledge-based economy that benefits both citizens and businesses. the eu needs to act to maintain its global competitive edge, especially in fast-growing sectors of the economy such as online platforms and application software. universal connectivity, to which free access to high-speed broadband internet networks is essential, universal and uniform access to internet services for all citizens and a diversity of wireless broadband services are essential conditions for the development of the digital single market. restricting access to digital markets and internet users by eu companies, including through mass state censorship or market access restrictions imposed on eu internet service providers in third countries, constitutes a barrier to trade. therefore, it is necessary to include a safeguard in all future trade agreements, in particular those containing provisions relating to online services and online communities of users sharing content, to ensure that third parties do not require eu ict companies to restrict access to websites, remove user-generated content or provide personal data, such as personal ip addresses, in ways that infringe fundamental rights and freedoms. a strategy is needed to address the issue of measures taken by third countries that restrict access to global online markets for eu companies.
in writing. − the committee on employment and social affairs has for some time been concerned about the impact of so-called austerity measures on society and in particular on vulnerable groups. various reports have been made to draw attention to the situation. in the own-initiative communication, the rapporteur seeks to identify certain problems encountered by vulnerable groups or groups that are the result of specific situations. groups are under increasing pressure as costs are reduced and demand rises. this is reflected in the reduction in costs, both for services and social benefits, which affects both those who need care and those who provide it. short-term cost reductions may lead to long-term problems. this also contributes to increasing social inequalities, as the poor become poorer and are at odds with the europe 2020 goals. there is also an increase in 'hate speech', harassment and attacks against people with disabilities, people with mental health problems and other vulnerable groups. it is also a sector notorious for its low wages, poor working conditions and generally high turnover rates, so it is not surprising that it is often the sector that is most understaffed. i voted in favour of this proposal because at least a thorough assessment of the social impact of changes in social protection systems and the provision of care services is needed to avoid a worsening of an already bad situation.
in writing. − austerity measures have affected different parts of society disproportionately, hitting hardest those that are the most vulnerable. public sector budgets are being cut, challenging the healthcare system and making it far more difficult for older people, children and those with special needs to receive care. as evidence of this, older people are more likely to receive care from family members, rather than from professionals. healthcare barriers in a number of member states make access to healthcare difficult for these more vulnerable groups, creating greater social inequality and significant long-term problems. comparing rising healthcare costs to incomes explains why people do not seek care at an early stage, which results in a much costlier treatment later. some are even unable to complete treatment because they cannot afford to take time away from work. people are deterred from seeking healthcare due to other barriers like unavailable workplace health benefits or difficulty in accessing social security and welfare. i voted in favour of this report because people, especially those in already vulnerable situations, should have available access to healthcare.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because media pluralism, freedom of opinion, press and information are fundamental to the functioning of our democratic societies. the media perform educational, informational, entertainment and supervisory functions. connected television is an important technological step towards media convergence, which by its very nature raises questions about important media regulatory decisions. it was decided to apply a strict regulatory framework to linear services and to apply a less strict regulatory framework to non-linear services. the mixed reception unit allows the user not only to watch regular television programmes but also to connect to the internet. in the long run, we can expect a near-total media merger. the large amount of content offered makes its detectability and non-discriminatory access one of the biggest problems for connected television. the platform developer and/or the portal administrators pre-select which services are available and, in particular, whether they are given priority as provided, and only he decides on the technology that will be implemented. thus, access to opinion-forming content is controlled by the platform service provider, the portal administrator or the device manufacturer and is not subject to any media regulation. it is considered necessary to extend the audiovisual media services directive to its scope to include fully the operators of mixed portals and platforms. those who have a significant impact on the diversity of services and opinions reaching the end-user must also comply with the rules on ensuring the diversity of those services and opinions.
in writing. − i have endorsed the proposal because the long-running crisis will not be overcome without a substantial further strengthening of european integration, and because the financial, economic and debt crises have shown the need for stronger democratic control and accountability. the commission should present measures to preserve and strengthen the european model of a social market economy in order to reverse the damage caused by the long-term recession and to restore full employment and sustainable growth. the eu faces unprecedented challenges from fragile banking systems, the continuing debt and deficit problems faced by member states, the loss of european competitiveness in the global economy, high youth unemployment and social hardship caused by the economic downturn. it is therefore necessary to take action and complete the current commission work programme by the end of its mandate, in particular on the single market for services, the digital agenda, the internal energy market, close cooperation and free trade agreements and the renewal of fair trade agreements.
in writing. i congratulate my colleague mr buzek on this important report. eu countries still have a long way to go to achieve the targets they have set. the fact that we are on the right track is also shown by the unchanging position of some external suppliers. solidarity between european countries is essential in relations with third-country suppliers, including in negotiations to revise outdated contracts. it is necessary to establish a system for the exchange of information, to seek reciprocity, and to prevent anti-competitive acts and practices. the commission has a key role to play in ensuring that the eu's neighbouring countries adhere to the highest standards of nuclear safety and provide all requested information on nuclear energy projects being developed along the eu's external borders. it is also time to strengthen the monitoring and evaluation of the transposition and implementation of the third energy package at eu level. competition, adequate infrastructure and connections, smart technology, flexibility, sustainability, efficient consumption, an increasing share of renewable energy - these are the things we need to achieve in order to ensure that the eu's internal energy market meets the needs and expectations of its key players - end-users.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation amending regulation no 850/98 on the conservation of fishery resources through the introduction of technical measures to protect juveniles of marine organisms. the purpose of the proposal is to align regulation (ec) no 850/98 with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. the commission will be empowered to decide on the geographical division of the regions, on the technical descriptions and methods of use of fishing nets, on the rules for measuring the mesh size of nets, etc.
in writing. − i agreed with the commission's choices regarding the proposed amendments. the document proposes to empower the commission to adopt delegated acts and to grant it implementing powers concerning the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms. however, i consider that when delegated acts are proposed, the period of validity of the delegation of power should be limited in order to allow for a continuous assessment of the way in which they are used.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. i think it is appropriate to empower the commission to adopt delegated acts. it should be noted that the granting of such powers will ensure the uniform implementation of the rules on the division of regions into geographical zones, the rules on the use of mesh combinations, the rules on the percentage of the main species caught by more than one vessel and other technical rules. although this amendment is technical in nature, it is a very politically sensitive process. in this context, it is essential that the timing and scope of the delegation of power be strictly limited. this will ensure an effective control mechanism. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 264 concerning the conditions for the participation of the union in the work of the agency.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the number of registered partnerships, where partnerships are legalised without marriage, is increasing worldwide. such partnerships are inevitably associated with property consequences (when the partnership ends or one of the partners dies) and/or interracial couples. when decisions with a material impact are to be taken in connection with a division of property or a partnership, the persons concerned are faced with complex issues, in particular as regards the applicable law and jurisdiction. national provisions on these matters vary widely - even more so for registered partnerships than for marriages. this creates legal conflicts, legal uncertainty. moreover, in the event of a dispute, the better informed partner, as in the case of spouses, may be interested in applying as soon as possible to the court which, in his opinion, will apply the law which is more favourable to him. i agree with the rapporteur that the registration of a partnership would give individuals the opportunity to choose the law applicable to the legal regime of their property. i agree with the rules in the resolution which provide for the legal interpretation of the property rights of registered partners of an international nature.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because of the property consequences of registered partnerships. the aim of the proposal is to ensure legal certainty for persons entering into international registered partnerships. in 2007, some 211 000 registered partnerships were formed in the eu, of which 41 000 were international. the termination of such a partnership and the division of assets raise problems of applicable law and jurisdiction. the relevant national provisions vary widely. i support the proposals set out above to provide registered partners with the possibility of choosing the law applicable to the legal regime of their assets. it is important to provide for a legal consultation requirement for partners wishing to agree on the applicable law. i also support the establishment of a uniform statute for the institutions of marriage and registered partnerships in other matters of the legal regime of property.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because when decisions with a material impact have to be taken on the division of assets or on partnerships, the persons concerned are faced with complex issues, in particular as regards the applicable law and jurisdiction. the relevant national provisions vary widely, and even more so in the case of registered partnerships than in the case of marriage. this creates considerable legal uncertainty. moreover, in the event of a dispute, the better informed partner, as in the case of spouses, may be interested in applying as soon as possible to the court which, in his opinion, will apply the law which is more favourable to him. it is proposed to also provide for the possibility for registered partners to choose the law applicable to the legal regime of their assets. any choice of applicable law would have no effect, provided that the objective link remains with the law of the member state in which the partnership is registered. it also provides for a consultation requirement. although partners wishing to agree on the applicable law are usually given the relevant information and the parties concerned in particular are usually best informed of their rights, legal advice should be provided in the light of the specific need for protection. if consultation is provided for in one member state under the special requirements of an agreement on the applicable law, this condition would be fulfilled in one way or another (e.g. by the granting of an official endorsement).
in writing. − in order to create a clear legal framework, it is appropriate to allow registered partners to choose the law applicable to the legal regime of their assets. this will allow for more efficient and easier management of assets located in several countries. in particular, the substantial differences between the applicable substantive and international private law rules will be eliminated and common provisions will be established throughout the eu. moreover, the increased legal certainty of the partners will prevent the search for the most favourable court. it should be noted that in all cases the scope must be precisely defined and its boundary with other areas of law clearly defined. on the other hand, appropriate safeguards must also be established to prevent the choice of the applicable law from being made without the express consent of both parties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the property consequences of registered partnerships. the aim of the proposal is to ensure legal certainty for persons entering into international registered partnerships. in 2007, some 211 000 registered partnerships were formed in the eu, of which 41 000 were international. the termination of such a partnership and the division of assets raise problems of applicable law and jurisdiction. the relevant national provisions vary widely. i support the proposals set out above to provide registered partners with the possibility of choosing the law applicable to the legal regime of their assets. it is important to provide for a legal consultation requirement for partners wishing to agree on the applicable law. i also support ensuring equal status for marriage and registered partnership institutions in other matters of the legal regime of property.
in writing. - i supported this proposal because in all cases of divorce or death of one of the spouses in an international marriage, the spouses' property must be divided. the persons concerned face complex issues, in particular as regards the applicable law and jurisdiction. the legal regime of matrimonial property also raises issues of property management in marriage; third parties may also be involved, for example in the case of land or loan transactions. the legal regime of matrimonial property regimes and the rules of jurisdiction vary widely between member states. it may therefore be the case in practice that the court having jurisdiction in one member state will treat the matrimonial property regime in the same case differently from the court having jurisdiction in another member state. in particular, the acquisition of substantial property may make it necessary to apply to the court from which the party concerned expects the application of the matrimonial property regime considered more favourable to it. in this case, the better informed party has a clear advantage. in addition, there is a general degree of legal uncertainty and hence a high cost potential. the proposal on the matrimonial property regime can indeed significantly improve the legal situation of the spouses concerned. this is also in line with parliament's call for 'simpler, clearer and more accessible procedures in civil law'. with increasing mobility, this will be an issue for an even greater number of couples.
in writing. − with the increasing free movement of persons within the european union, and with it the increase in marriages between nationals of different member states, the question of the legal regime governing the property of spouses is also becoming relevant. this is especially true where one spouse dies and the property may be subject to several legal regimes. i support this document which simplifies the procedure for the recognition and enforcement of judgments on matrimonial property regimes and on the succession. i am sure that this decision will bring more legal clarity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amending this regulation because the eu must ensure equal protection for international couples with regard to their property regime and property consequences. the new legal framework will help to remove the remaining obstacles to citizens' enjoyment of their rights in the european judicial area. it should be noted that, at present, couples of international origin face considerable practical and legal difficulties, ambiguities and discrimination in the management of their property. in this context, it is necessary to ensure that couples are able to exercise their rights in a conscious and purposeful manner. the legal framework for matrimonial property regimes would be uniform, simplified and accessible to all european citizens. the eu should establish a uniform legal framework and facilitate the movement of judicial decisions and other documents from one member state to another.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on promoting a european transport technology strategy for future sustainable mobility in europe. this strategy should in particular promote quality of service, convenience for passengers and businesses, and sustainable mobility. the eu needs to develop a genuine common transport policy to ensure access to adequate transport in and between european regions, and to ensure consistency at local, regional, national and european level. we, the members of the european parliament, stress the need to promote good practice in sustainable transport and to accelerate cooperation and the exchange of good practices between regions with similar development opportunities. i agree with the rapporteur that research, innovation and investment in this area are an integral part of sustainable european mobility. innovation and investment would allow for greater efficiency in transport technologies and economic, environmental and social benefits. therefore, in view of the importance of research and innovation for the european economy as a whole, we call on the commission and the council to recognise the importance of horizon 2020 and to adequately fund it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a european transport technology strategy to promote a sustainable future of mobility in europe. the purpose of this proposal is to discuss the recent commission communication on research and innovation in the future of european mobility. the development of a european transport technology strategy. the report notes that duplication of research initiatives at national and european union level is holding back the necessary progress in transport. i support the proposals put forward to tackle this issue as quickly as possible, while better combining research and innovation with transport policy. i believe that special attention should be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises, giving them better opportunities in research, in particular by reducing the administrative burden they face when applying for eu funding. at the same time, greater attention needs to be paid to investments to make better use of the results of transport research by encouraging their uptake.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to have a european strategy that ensures that the balance is maintained between efforts to reduce the environmental impact of transport and those to ensure freedom of movement in the european union. it is essential for europe to have a common european transport area, using different transport systems, which is integrated and which makes efficient use of resources. in addition, there is an urgent need to maximise the efficiency of european transport technologies to deliver economic, environmental and societal benefits, boosting sustainable growth and job creation. this report supports research and innovation to reduce transport demands through better spatial planning, communication strategies and behavioural change. the possibilities for integrated information provision and ticketing should be further clarified, allowing for the use of technologies across europe. the transport technology strategy should give priority to research supporting the easy, sustainable and safe mobility of the most vulnerable citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as it is becoming clear that the union's targets for reducing energy consumption, noise, air pollutants, greenhouse gas emissions, accidents and land use are unlikely to be met, thus reducing the impact of transport on climate change and helping to improve the health and quality of life of eu citizens. there are still many challenges to be overcome in order to better align research and innovation with transport policy. small and medium-sized enterprises deserve special attention and should be given greater opportunities in research, in particular by integrating procedures and reducing the administrative burden for them when applying for eu funding. indeed, businesses need to integrate new solutions and innovative technologies to work more efficiently and invest more. member states need to focus more on coordination and investment in order to better exploit the results of transport research, encouraging their uptake and use in the market. there is an urgent need to maximise the efficiency of european transport technologies to deliver economic, environmental and societal benefits, boosting sustainable growth and job creation. the transport technology strategy should give priority to research supporting the easy, sustainable and safe mobility of the most vulnerable citizens.
in writing. − the european transport technology strategy is the foundation for sustainable european mobility. mobility is essential to stimulate economic growth and create new jobs. progress is therefore needed in this sector to remove existing obstacles to transport development, quality of services, sustainable mobility. in particular, a clear and transparent legal framework is needed to achieve the objectives pursued. the european transport technology strategy must be based on an integrated model and make better use of the results of transport research. it should be noted that investments in transport will ensure an efficient, flexible and safe transport system. it is essential to use research and innovation resources more economically and consistently and to increase the interaction between public and private investment. this will increase the economic and social attractiveness of the regions and improve people's living conditions, with particular attention to the mobility of the most vulnerable citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that all suspects and accused persons should be given the right to have a lawyer as soon as possible and in such a way that they can effectively exercise their rights of defence. moreover, those rights should be granted before the start of the questioning, before any procedural or evidence-gathering action and after the restriction of freedom. in some countries these rights vary considerably, i.e. the right of defence in criminal proceedings varies in scope depending on the particular legal system and its practical application. in addition, member states implement and comply with the provisions of the european convention on human rights and the case law of the european court of human rights in different ways, resulting in different standards within the european union. i agree with the rapporteur that there should be specific rules governing legal aid. citizens should be guaranteed that their rights are fully respected and that they are guaranteed safety when they travel. they should also be assured of the same guarantees in all eu member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the right to have a lawyer during criminal proceedings and the right to be contacted after arrest. the purpose of the proposal is to strengthen the protection of the rights of victims of crime and the rights of suspects and accused persons by regulating procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings. over 8 million criminal trials take place in the eu every year, but the conditions for consulting a lawyer vary from one member state to another. i support the proposals set out to ensure that suspects have the right to be represented by a lawyer from the first police interview and the right to appropriate and confidential meetings between suspects and a lawyer. it is essential that suspects can contact their family members or employer, and suspects abroad their embassy. i also support the proposal to ensure that persons who have been issued an eu arrest warrant are able to obtain legal advice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european parliament has long called for strengthening: (1) the protection of the rights of victims of crime and (2) the protection of the rights of suspects and accused persons. following the failure of the commission's 2004 framework decision on certain procedural rights in criminal proceedings, parliament, in a report by mr pagano adopted on 7 may 2007, urged the drafting of a wide-ranging legislative act on procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings. the european parliament proposes to establish a basic principle according to which all suspects and accused persons should be granted the right to have access to a lawyer as soon as possible and in such a way that they can effectively exercise their rights of defence. furthermore, this notice states that in any event these rights should be granted before the start of the interrogation, before any procedural or evidence-gathering action and after the restriction of freedom. it is also essential to define the content of the law, i.e. that meetings between suspects or accused persons and their lawyer must be confidential, to list derogations from the general principles and to lay down the rules governing the waiver of the right to a lawyer.
in writing. −the right of defence in criminal proceedings varies in scope between member states, depending on the particular legal system and its practical application. this has an indirect but significant impact on the eu's policy of mutual trust and mutual recognition. the member states have implemented and applied the provisions of the european convention on human rights and the case law of the european court of human rights in different ways, resulting in different standards within the european union. i therefore support the need to strengthen the procedural rights of suspects and accused persons, to strike the right balance between freedom, justice and security. citizens should be assured that their rights are fully respected and that their security is guaranteed. the right of suspects and accused persons to have access to a lawyer should be a key principle from the outset of criminal proceedings.
in writing. - i support this resolution. the new legal framework will allow citizens to exercise their procedural rights properly when they are confronted by law enforcement in other eu countries, and will also prevent the use of force by the investigating authorities. this will provide the basis for the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of judgments in criminal matters and ensure the equality of the means of the prosecution and the defence. common minimum standards for the rights of suspects and accused persons in criminal proceedings should apply throughout the eu. the timely provision of effective legal aid to suspects or accused persons is essential for the proper exercise of procedural rights. they should be granted the right to have a lawyer in order to exercise effectively their rights of defence. it should be noted that the lack of access to a lawyer may make it impossible to exercise effectively other rights of defence. they must be given the opportunity to contact a third party after their arrest. it is also necessary to ensure the confidentiality of meetings between suspects or accused persons and their lawyer.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on credit agreements for residential property. the purpose of the proposal is to establish new rules for the granting of housing loans. under the new rules, home buyers planning to take out a loan will have to be better informed about the costs and risks of a loan. at the same time, home buyers will be protected against market fluctuations that could lead to higher loan prices in the event of difficulties in refinancing the loan. the new rules will apply to loans related to residential property and to the land on which the property is located or is only planned to be built.
in writing. − i voted for this report because we have to protect people's interests when they take out loans for real estate. a mortgage is often the most important and longest-lasting financial commitment a family makes. unfortunately, during the economic and financial crisis, many people were unable to pay their loans, and this affected them and their families very badly. the european parliament therefore proposes in its report to address urgently important issues such as risk-based approach, financial literacy, good governance and transparency. in order to correct the excessive uniformity of the regulation, it is necessary to establish a definition of special risk arrangements. this is necessary to combat financial illiteracy, which is a cause of irresponsible behaviour. it is necessary to address the problems arising throughout the life of the credit agreement, ensuring the flexibility that can be achieved by strengthening the balance between competitiveness and stability. it is also necessary to develop transparent, well-functioning and reliable mortgage lending markets. moreover, the crisis has shown the importance of ensuring the traceability of residential property rights for creditors and investors in instruments where the right to residential property acts as collateral. new credit agreements should be assigned a european mortgage key identifier to ensure that the link between the loan and the property can be established in the primary and secondary markets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because home buyers planning to take out a loan will need to be better informed about the costs and risks of a loan and will be better protected against market fluctuations that could lead to a higher cost of a loan. at the same time, borrowers will be better protected in the event of difficulties in refinancing their loans. the new rules will apply to loans related to residential property and to the land on which the property is located or is only planned to be built. the recipients of the state loan will have to receive information on the future loan in the same form, regardless of the state loan. before signing a credit agreement, the consumer should be provided with personalised information allowing him to compare the credits on the market, to assess their costs and their long-term financial implications, and to have a seven-day period before or after signing the contract to take a decision. the conditions for the granting of advances are made more flexible and the requirement for consumers to pay penalties is abolished. in the event of the borrowers' inability to repay the loan, the real estate should be sold at the best market price and measures to allow repayment of the debt on more favourable terms should be introduced. the amendments to the rules were accepted, but the final text was not voted on, as it was necessary to ensure that the eu countries were ready to implement these rules properly, on which a compromise had already been reached in principle.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion. irresponsible borrowing has created a huge debt problem. many home buyers became insolvent and were forced to sell their properties at very low prices. in order to avoid such negative consequences in the future, urgent action is necessary. in particular, the eu should operate an internal market in mortgage lending based on sustainable practices. sustainable lending needs to be promoted continuously in order to restore consumer confidence and financial stability. a reliable procedure for the evaluation of loan applications, harmonious relations between the parties involved and good consumer information are the basis for achieving the objectives set. it should be noted that only responsible lending will improve market conditions and prevent excessive indebtedness.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on insider dealing and market manipulation. the smooth functioning of securities markets and public confidence in them are essential conditions for economic growth and prosperity, and market abuse therefore not only undermines the integrity of financial markets but also public confidence in financial markets. i support the new rules to tighten up sanctions for insider trading and market abuse. the harmonised set of rules and standardised conditions will help to ensure the integrity of the financial market and the protection of consumers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a stronger fight against securities trading using information which is not publicly available, as well as against market manipulation. the aim of the proposal is to increase investor confidence and to that end to prohibit persons with inside information from trading in certain financial instruments and from manipulating markets. i support the proposals set out to increase the powers of the regulatory authorities to investigate and impose sanctions and to reduce the administrative burden on small and medium-sized issuers. it is also important to increase the reporting of suspicious transactions by making suspicious orders or otc transactions mandatory.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as both the commission's proposed regulation and the european parliament's report seek to enhance market integrity and investor protection while ensuring a harmonised set of rules and a level playing field, and extend the market abuse regime to all financial instruments covered by the markets in financial instruments directive. the aspect of the commission's proposed regulation on securities trading using inside information and market manipulation (abusive market) is that it provides for an exemption from the obligation to disclose inside information for market participants who are unlikely to be significantly affected by the pricing of allowances. the commission intends to set, by means of delegated acts, the minimum limit value (expressed in annual co2 emissions, heat output or a combination thereof) to be applied to this exemption. therefore, only information relating to the activities of the largest polluters participating in the eu greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme (typically those in the eu electricity sector) is likely to have a significant impact on carbon pricing.
in writing. − securities trading using inside information and market manipulation have helped some bankers to make millions, but have also undermined the stability of the financial system. i voted in favour of the new rules to prevent market manipulation and abuse. this is a key step towards better control of financial markets. the prohibition on using confidential information in stock trading is enshrined in eu law, but it is often ignored when there is a good opportunity to profit from it. much remains to be done to restore public confidence in banking and the financial services sector. we need to stimulate the real economy and strengthen consumer protection in the financial services sector.
in writing. − i support this proposal, as it is necessary to strengthen and update the measures to combat market abuse and insider dealing. in particular, the eu must have an effective system in place to enhance market integrity and ensure adequate investor protection. in order to ensure legal certainty, uniform procedures and definitions should apply at eu level and uniform application of the measures in the member states should be ensured. on the other hand, it is essential to extend the market abuse framework to include all financial instruments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation amending the regulation on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures in the baltic sea, the belts and the sound. the purpose of the proposal is to align the regulation with the treaty of lisbon. the commission should propose a new draft regulation on the use of technical measures in the baltic sea, the belts and the sound following the publication of the new regulation on the common fisheries policy in the official journal of the european union. the adoption of the new regulation will have a direct impact on the use of technical measures in the baltic sea and the belts and sound, and will therefore require major changes to this regulation.
in writing. − i have agreed to the proposal as it aims to harmonise the regulation in the light of the changes adopted in the lisbon treaty. the commission should propose a new, substantially amended draft regulation on the use of technical measures in the baltic sea, the belts and the sound immediately after the publication of the text of the basic regulation in the official journal of the european union. in order to ensure that this is done, it is necessary that the commission proposes a draft new regulation in this respect no later than one year after the publication of the text of the basic regulation in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. − the protection of fish stocks in the baltic sea is one of the elements of the new common fisheries policy, sustainable fisheries. i fully agree with the rapporteur that, while it is necessary to update these rules in the light of the lisbon treaty, it is necessary to ensure that they are not incompatible with the future regulation governing the common fisheries policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this amendment to the regulation. in particular, environmental protection must be taken into account in the definition and implementation of the union's policies and activities, including in order to harmonise the regulation with the treaty of lisbon, on a case-by-case basis. technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources must be properly implemented to ensure the conservation and responsible exploitation of fishery resources. in view of this, it is necessary to lay down legal rules ensuring uniform conditions for the implementation of the regulation. on the other hand, it is essential that the amendments to this regulation are compatible with the provisions of the new regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the common fisheries policy. the commission should be empowered to do so for a limited period only.
i voted in favour of this document and i congratulate mr buzek on his important report. i would also like to thank my colleagues who supported my amendments to this document. the european union countries still have a long way to go to achieve the objectives they have set themselves. the fact that we are on the right track is also evident from the changing position of some external suppliers. solidarity between european countries is essential in relations with third-country suppliers. it is essential for negotiations, for reviewing outdated contracts, etc. a system of information exchange should be established and anti-competitive practices should be prevented. the commission has a crucial role to play in ensuring that the european union's neighbouring countries adhere to the highest standards of nuclear safety and provide all requested information on nuclear energy projects being developed along the european union's external borders. it is also time to strengthen the monitoring and evaluation of the transposition and implementation of the third energy package at eu level. competition, adequate infrastructure and connections are among the key elements to meet the needs and expectations of end-users.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the internal energy market. member states have committed themselves to completing the internal energy market by 2014 and to abolishing energy islands by 2015. as stated in the europe 2020 strategy, the internal energy market is necessary not only to consolidate the eu's overall energy security and sustainability, but also to increase the eu's global competitiveness, to accelerate economic growth and to create new jobs. in other words, the development of local energy resources will create new trading hubs and new gas and electricity markets in the eu, creating a real opportunity for the eu and its member states to set their own energy prices. i agree with the rapporteur that final energy consumers (individuals, small and medium-sized enterprises, industry) are the most important in a favourable and transparent internal energy market and that their information needs to be given special attention. i would also like to stress that the internal energy market is not yet complete and that national energy markets are not meeting consumers' needs and expectations. for example, there are unreasonably high energy prices, a limited number of suppliers or producers, a limited choice of tariffs, a low quality of service, etc. it is therefore necessary to create a more user-friendly market in which consumers can play an active role.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the internal energy market is essential to consolidate the overall energy security and sustainability of the union and contributes significantly to increasing the union's global competitiveness, boosting economic growth and creating jobs, as recognised in single market act ii and the europe 2020 strategy. moreover, the european internal energy market and its respective national energy markets must be competitive and provide real choice and transparent information to all consumers, who play a key role in the energy market. the european parliament's report focuses on the consumer, because the energy market must be consumer-oriented. the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. such measures will help consumers to better understand and manage their energy consumption, thereby enabling them to become more flexible and responsive (both in terms of demand and supply). in addition, such measures can improve access to renewable energy and attract the necessary financial investments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because an open, competitive, integrated and flexible european energy market will help to ensure security of supply and will allow for tariff reductions while providing transparency, will improve european competitiveness and will contribute to economic growth and consumer welfare, and it is therefore important to remove as soon as possible the physical, legal or regulatory barriers that hinder the opening up of the market and its effective functioning. member states committed themselves to a clear deadline to complete the internal energy market by 2014 and to eliminate the eu's energy islands by 2015. it is necessary to modernise existing infrastructure and to develop new, advanced and flexible energy generation, transmission (in particular cross-border gas and electricity links), distribution and storage infrastructure, and to ensure that no member state is left isolated from the european gas and electricity networks by 2015.
in writing. −the commitment to complete the internal energy market by 2014 and to eliminate the eu's energy islands by 2015 is already here. however, the creation of an eu internal energy market requires further strengthening of cross-border cooperation and coordination of action at eu level. it is important to ensure that member states lack the political will to fully implement the third energy package and related legislation, and to complete infrastructure and interconnection projects in a timely manner. at the same time, it is necessary to continue antitrust measures and reduce the eu's dependence on fossil fuels by increasing the share of energy from renewable sources. the eu must speak with one voice with third-country suppliers, both to help eu countries negotiate new supply contracts and to ensure the highest standards of nuclear safety in the eu's neighbourhood and the transparent functioning of the eu's internal energy market.
in writing. − as we are committed to completing the internal energy market by 2014 and to abolishing the eu's energy islands by 2015, it is essential to address the challenges of competitiveness, transparency and regulation in the energy sector in the eu energy markets as soon as possible. in particular, the most cost-effective provision of flexible services in the energy sector must be ensured in order to stabilise and improve the key conditions for the european energy sector, as well as to promote sustainable energy supply. it is necessary to reduce energy costs and prices to affordable and competitive levels and to ensure that consumers are protected from energy poverty. in view of this, i am opposed to the proposal to introduce a mandatory european tax, which would make the situation of consumers in many european countries more difficult. it is also essential that the eu has safe, sustainable, affordable and reliable energy production methods. more attention should be paid to the modernisation of infrastructure and the development of new, smart generation, transmission, distribution and storage infrastructure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the countries of the european union to make every effort to complete the internal energy market by 2014. only by fully connecting all eu countries' energy networks will eu countries be in a strong position to negotiate the terms of supply of energy resources with third countries. the commitment by eu member states to abolish eu energy islands by 2015 is of particular importance for lithuania. i hope that the baltic states and their neighbours will do their homework and that this goal will be achieved in time. investments in smart grids, renewable energy sources are still expensive, but the returns are also huge. the international energy agency has rightly pointed out that decisive action could reduce eu gas imports by a third by 2035.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of energy efficiency measures and their impact on cohesion policy. energy efficiency is a key aspect of europe's strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth - europe 2020 - and its benefits have long been recognised in the european union. however, the eu faces major challenges in achieving its target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020. therefore, policies promoting energy efficiency could and should play a greater role. i agree with the rapporteur that progress in energy efficiency is crucial for european competitiveness, job creation, economic growth at local and regional level and a useful tool in the fight against climate change. for example, the majority of energy is still produced from hydrocarbons, which emit greenhouse gases when burned, and up to 50% is imported from non-eu countries. moreover, investments in energy efficiency measures can deliver quick and tangible benefits to households and businesses. i therefore call on the commission to disseminate more effectively to local and regional authorities practical information on energy efficiency and benefits, and on member states to encourage the exchange of best practices in setting up national energy efficiency funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the implementation and impact of energy efficiency measures in cohesion policy. the objective of the proposal is to improve energy efficiency. i support calls for member states to set out in their operational programmes simple and non-bureaucratic procedures for the use of funds for energy efficiency improvements in housing. it is also important to ensure that, under a decentralised arrangement, municipal authorities can directly access funding for energy efficiency improvements in housing. i support calls for the commission to better disseminate information to local and regional authorities on energy efficiency and the benefits of investing in energy efficiency improvements. the commission should improve the visibility of operational programmes and facilitate the access of potential beneficiaries who have proposed sustainable energy projects. the importance of the building sector in contributing to energy efficiency should not be overlooked.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because energy efficiency is a key aspect of europe's strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth europe 2020 and its benefits have long been recognised in the european union. however, the eu faces significant challenges in achieving its target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020, and policies promoting energy efficiency can and should play a greater role. it should be noted that progress in energy efficiency is crucial for europe's competitiveness and represents a win-win opportunity in the fight against climate change. investments in energy efficiency measures can deliver rapid and tangible benefits to households and businesses, such as cost reductions, as well as job opportunities and growth and the transition to a low-carbon economy. cohesion policy is one of the main sources of support that can help the eu get back on track towards the energy efficiency target. it should be noted that the commission has responded to this challenge by proposing to almost double the cohesion policy budget for climate-related expenditure, including energy efficiency, in the next programming period (2014-2020).
in writing. − i supported this proposal because energy efficiency is a key aspect of europe's strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, europe 2020, and its benefits have long been recognised in the european union. however, the eu faces significant challenges in achieving its target of reducing total energy consumption by 20% by 2020, and policies promoting energy efficiency can and should play a greater role. progress in energy efficiency is crucial for europe's competitiveness and represents a win-win opportunity in the fight against climate change. investments in energy efficiency measures can deliver rapid and tangible benefits to households and businesses, such as cost reductions, as well as job opportunities and growth and the transition to a low-carbon economy. to achieve greater energy efficiency, much greater efforts are needed to develop more efficient transport, housing and buildings. only by stepping up financial commitments will europe be able to achieve its energy efficiency targets.
in writing. − ensuring energy efficiency is one of the necessary measures to achieve the goals of a low-carbon economy. however, improvements in energy efficiency are often associated with costs that are often difficult to cover from own resources. i therefore support the provisions that this area should be given greater attention in the implementation of cohesion policy and in the definition of eu funding for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. − i support the resolution presented, as much more effort is needed to achieve greater energy efficiency. it should be noted that cohesion policy plays a crucial role in the implementation of energy policy, and therefore it is essential to reduce economic, social and territorial disparities between regions. on the other hand, cost-effective energy efficiency improvements promote competitiveness, job creation and economic growth at local and regional levels. therefore, more funding should be allocated to projects related to energy efficiency. in order to allow for more efficient use of the structural funds, the cohesion fund and other funding opportunities, it is necessary to remove bureaucratic obstacles and simplify rules and procedures. particular attention should be paid to the development of more efficient transport and buildings. the construction and renovation of social housing should be carried out in order to meet energy efficiency objectives and standards. it is also essential that new buildings achieve a high level of energy efficiency and that existing buildings are modernised.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the strategy for fisheries in the adriatic and ionian seas. given that fisheries are traditionally an important sector in most of the coastal regions of the adriatic and ionian seas, the development of a new strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in these seas would have a positive impact on local communities. the adriatic and ionian sea region, which comprises seven states italy, greece, slovenia, croatia, montenegro, albania and bosnia and herzegovina, is uneven in economic, environmental and cultural terms. i agree with the rapporteur that closer cooperation with neighbouring countries is needed in areas such as the common fisheries management regime, ensuring sustainable use of resources, etc. maritime activities are international in nature and involve common resources. the development of an integrated approach to maritime policy in the adriatic and ionian sea basin therefore requires dialogue. i also support the call for the commission to adopt an action plan and a regulation addressing the management of fishing activities in this macro-region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a strategy for fisheries in the adriatic and ionian seas. the aim of the proposal is to develop a new eu strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas to encourage the development of sustainable economic activities that would have a positive impact on coastal communities. the adriatic and ionian seas are an important maritime region, with coastlines spanning seven countries, four of which are members of the eu. i welcome the proposals made to contribute to the eu's response to the challenges in this region, such as the development of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors, marine pollution, the economic disparities in coastal areas and the increasing urbanisation. closer cooperation with neighbouring countries is needed to establish a common fisheries management system and ensure sustainable use of resources. i agree that the specificities of the sea basin, including its specific geophysical characteristics, should be taken into account when setting measures relating to the fisheries and aquaculture sector. the european commission should adopt as soon as possible an action plan and a regulation addressing the management of fishing activities in this macro-region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as the aim of this report is to call for a new european union strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas. the main objective of such an eu strategy is to encourage the development of sustainable economic activities that would have a beneficial impact on coastal communities and adjacent land areas. coastal countries share a wide range of resources, including fish stocks, and therefore all face different challenges, directly or indirectly linked to the development of the fisheries and aquaculture sectors, such as marine pollution, coastal erosion, differences in the economic development of coastal areas and increasing urbanisation. the european commission has recently adopted a communication setting out a marine strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas, which should be the basis for the adaptation of the eu macro-regional strategy to the adriatic and ionian seas. in addition, the specificities of the sea basin, including its specific geophysical characteristics, i.e. its shallow sandy bottom and its lagoons, islands and coastal areas, should be taken into account when setting measures relating to the fisheries and aquaculture sector. accordingly, we call on the commission to adopt, at the earliest opportunity, the necessary action plan and regulation to address the management of fishing activities in this macro-region.
in writing. − i have supported this proposal as it seeks to encourage the development of a new eu strategy for fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic and ionian seas, with the aim of fundamentally encouraging the development of sustainable economic activities that would have a beneficial impact on coastal communities and adjacent land areas. the problems faced by the entire adriatic region still need to be effectively addressed. promoting good practices and initiatives in one place very quickly has a stimulating effect in other places or even in the whole region.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. this fisheries strategy is of vital importance for the development of fisheries, for the population and for international cooperation in the region. this will provide the basis for the development of sustainable economic activities and employment in coastal areas. fisheries in this region must be economically viable and carried out in a responsible manner. in particular, the strategy should be implemented on the basis of an ecosystem-based approach. the fisheries sector needs to be sustainable and productive, and therefore it is necessary to establish a common fisheries management regime and ensure the sustainable use of fish resources. it is also essential that the most important environmental issues are integrated into the different policy areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of a resolution on more efficient and cost-effective interpretation in the european parliament. the european union is the only economic and political community in the world to have an official policy of multilingualism, based on 24 official languages. each member of the european parliament has the right to speak and be heard in the official language of his or her choice. this ensures the principles of openness and transparency, respect for linguistic and cultural diversity and equality of opportunity for persons of different origins and education. however, although multilingualism is a prerequisite for the work of the institution and its members, it is recognised that translation costs are increasing every year. we, the members of the european parliament, agree that multilingualism must be made more effective without compromising the quality of the translation and without jeopardising the right of members to use the official language of their choice. to this end, parliament must inform the committee on budgetary control more effectively of the evolution of expenditure in the field of interpretation and of its decisions which affect interpretation services, their efficiency and cost reduction. we ask the court of auditors to report to parliament by march 2014 on the translation costs of the european parliament, the commission and the council and to answer the following questions: whether the services provided are above requirements; whether all the services required are provided; whether the services are provided at the lowest possible cost and whether the services are of high quality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for more efficient and cost-effective interpreting in the european parliament. in 2011, there were 5 263 plenary sessions requiring 100 000 interpreting working days, of which 47,74% were for freelance interpreters and 52,26% for permanent interpreters. the commission notes that the 2012 sgei decision does not provide for any specific exemption for the provision of interpretation services. over the last three years, eur 15,93 million has been lost due to late applications and cancellations. the aim of this proposal is to ensure that the translation services provided by the ep do not exceed real needs, and that they are provided at the lowest possible cost while maintaining a high level of quality. i agree with the ep's demand that a system be developed and implemented as a matter of urgency to avoid providing interpretation services into languages that are not actually spoken at the relevant meeting. it is also important to carry out a detailed analysis of the interpretation of the languages provided in all meetings of the groups, committees and delegations and of the languages actually used in these meetings. i agree to the creation of possible translations as required by the script. i support the request to the court of auditors to submit a special report on the costs of interpretation and translation for the ep, the ec and the council by mid-2014 at the latest.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european parliament's linguistic services facilitate communication and thus ensure that parliament remains open to all european citizens, guaranteeing a unique multilingual interface of the union based on the 24 official languages. furthermore, multilingualism is one of the fundamental characteristics of the european parliament, as well as of the european union as a whole, and therefore respect for cultural and linguistic diversity and equal treatment for eu citizens of different origins and education must be ensured. it should also be emphasised that the use of official languages in the european parliament is governed by the parliament's multilingualism code and that interpretation into the other official languages must therefore be ensured. the democratic right to be elected to the european parliament must therefore be respected, regardless of language skills. in its report, the european parliament draws attention to the fact that, while maintaining high standards of work, it is also necessary to aim at a more efficient use of translation resources and to control their costs in the light of the overall workload of each language unit and by ensuring that costs are reduced due to late cancellations of applications for meetings and delegation visits providing interpretation.
in writing. − i supported the need to increase the efficiency of multilingualism without compromising on the quality of the common language and without compromising the right of members to use the official language of their choice, but to promote the responsibility of clients and to plan translation services as efficiently as possible so that all our resources are used as efficiently and effectively as possible.
in writing. − as the document notes, the european union is the only entity in the world to have an official multilingualism policy based on 24 official languages and using a total of 552 language pairs. as a directly elected political body whose members are chosen irrespective of their language proficiency, parliament grants all its members the right to speak in the official language of their choice, which is a fundamental principle of the european parliament's procedures and work. the quality of the interpretation must therefore be high, while at the same time the aim is to reduce as much as possible not only the accuracy and quality of the interpretation itself, but also the economic efficiency and costs associated with the service.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i believe that multilingualism must be constantly improved and that cultural and linguistic diversity must be respected. it should be noted that multilingualism gives citizens the opportunity to exercise their right to democratic control. on the other hand, linguistic services help the eu institutions to remain open and transparent. it is therefore important for the european parliament to ensure equal access to translation services and to maintain language equality. the system of interpretation in the european parliament must be effective. however, translation resources should be used more efficiently and their costs controlled while maintaining excellent quality of work.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on online gambling in the internal market. today, online gambling services are widely offered and used in the eu and the economic importance of the sector is increasing. online gambling (e.g. poker, casino games, sports betting, etc.) is the fastest growing segment of the gambling market. statistics show that 2% of the european population is addicted to gambling, and the easy access to online gambling sites may not only worsen the situation but also create a favourable environment for criminal activities such as money laundering. the specific nature of the online gambling sector should make the protection of human health and consumers a key principle in the development of eu-level guidelines and national legislation. i agree with the rapporteur that special attention should be paid to minors and their parents. in other words, minors must be prevented from accessing online gambling, parents must be informed about the consequences of online gambling and gambling operators must provide clear and specific warnings to minors about the illegality of their participation in online gambling. it is also essential to emphasise the need to establish a clear demarcation between online gambling and other forms of online entertainment and to put in place effective measures to inform, in particular young people, about the dangers of gambling addiction.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on online gambling in the internal market. the aim of the proposal is to create a better regulated, safer online gambling sector, which would help to divert users away from unregulated sites. the annual growth rate of online gambling services is 15%, with annual operating revenues expected to reach eur 13 billion in 2015. however, thousands of gambling sites are unregulated, a large proportion of them outside the eu. this encourages fraud and money laundering. i agree that it is important to develop better age-checking tools and filters for online content, as well as more responsible advertising for gambling. it is important that member states implement fraud and money laundering prevention and deterrence measures in the field of online gambling. it is important to develop appropriate methods at eu level to combat this problem, agreed between the eu, the member states and the online gambling sector. it is important to carry out surveys and collect data on gambling-related disorders and to promote training of judges on fraud and money laundering.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because gambling is not a normal economic activity, given the potential negative health and social impact of gambling. sadly, however, gamblers often have an insatiable appetite for gambling, the consequences of which are difficult to measure. gambling also involves organized crime, money laundering, and match-fixing. as regards online gambling, it should be emphasised that it may lead to a higher risk of addiction than traditional offline gambling. this is thought to be due to easier access and lack of social control, but further research and data are needed on this issue. the european parliament therefore calls on all member states and the commission to carry out further research in a coordinated manner to understand the problem of gambling. parliament also asked the commission to examine the possibility of stopping the practice of some companies established in one member state offering online gambling services, for example via satellite television or advertising campaigns, in another member state where they do not have a licence to offer these services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal, as the provision of gambling services is a specific economic activity, the restrictions on which can be justified by overriding reasons of public interest, such as consumer protection, the prevention of fraud, the fight against money laundering and the protection of public order and public health, but the restrictions on this activity must be proportionate to the objectives pursued and must be non-discriminatory. the main objective is to protect minors and vulnerable members of society and to combat addiction, crime and tax evasion and money laundering.
in writing. − we have already discussed the issue of better regulation of online gambling a few years ago. as i did then, i can only reiterate my position that the eu-wide regulation of online gambling is necessary. only in this way will it be possible to ensure that vulnerable groups of consumers are adequately protected against the undesirable effects of gambling.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in particular, the new regulation will make it possible to strictly regulate or even prohibit dangerous forms of gambling. it is essential that states properly implement the measures envisaged to reduce the negative impact of gambling. particular attention should be paid to the strict setting of betting limits and the limit of the player's own expected losses in online gambling, as well as to the protection of minors. in order to mitigate the potential negative consequences of gambling, a common voluntary online gambling cessation mechanism should be established at european union level. in addition, given the international nature of online gambling, it is necessary to develop a more coherent eu policy and, in some areas, a harmonised european approach.
i agree with all those who have spoken about the importance of reducing youth unemployment. we must do more to tackle this problem and in no way save the future of our young people. the report proposes a number of measures. i believe that all of them are important and necessary, since this problem can only be solved by a complex set of measures at national and european union level. i would say that the key measure is to improve the transition of young people from education to the labour market. it is necessary to find the most effective mechanisms for matching acquired competences, practical experience and labour market needs. the statistical concept of young people aged 15 to 24 should not be limited. it is important to note that young people are now studying longer and often enter the labour market after the age of 24. therefore, measures to reduce unemployment must target young people up to the age of at least 30. i would also like to point out that it is not necessary to understand that special measures are needed only when youth unemployment in a country is above 25%. i think that both 15 percent and 20 percent of people who are out of work are a painful enough problem. finally, the european union youth conference, which will focus on tackling youth unemployment, kicked off today in lithuania, which holds the presidency of the council of the european union. i think that the young people and the experts themselves will certainly come up with conclusions and recommendations on how to solve the problem of youth unemployment.
in writing. madam president, the situation of young people in the labour market is particularly difficult. according to the latest data, the unemployment rate for people under 25 in the european union is 23%, although in some countries, such as spain, it is as high as 55%. the economic crisis has caused a slowdown in job creation and employers are cutting back on existing employment to save money. the dismissals are most commonly those of temporary workers or those on civil and legal contracts, and thus mainly young people entering the labour market. the fight against youth unemployment therefore requires increased support from the european union institutions. the creation of a separate budget line, which could effectively help member states to support the employment of young people, the exchange of professional qualifications or the provision of further education, through the european social fund, is worth considering. in parallel, these actions need to promote self-employment. any action aimed at developing self-initiative, entrepreneurship by people under 30 years old, needs to be reflected in new legal decisions, especially in the context of the european union's programme for social change and innovation 2014-2020. interestingly, the fight against unemployment can also act as an incentive for greater occupational mobility. there are over a million registered job vacancies in the european union, but they are not being exploited. the plight of young people therefore requires decisive institutional intervention.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, the honourable member of the commission and the lithuanian minister-president for the detailed presentation of this important subject. it is encouraging that the cybersecurity strategy and the concrete actions it envisages are already materializing. i would like to emphasise the particularly important role of enisa and the development of its competences and strengthening of its powers to ensure a secure online environment at the european union level. the success of our cybersecurity efforts will directly affect the implementation of the european union's digital agenda and the creation of a digital market. over the next seven years, the union will invest over eur 1 billion in the development and improvement of information technology, and cybersecurity needs to be part of this agenda to protect our economic and political interests. i am pleased that lithuania intends to devote considerable attention to this issue during its presidency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the threat of extinction of european languages and linguistic diversity, which aims to protect and promote the entire cultural and linguistic heritage of the european union. i support the proposals set out in the report to draw up action plans for the promotion of endangered languages, to implement the european charter for regional or minority languages and to draw up programmes to promote tolerance towards, respect for and public respect for the linguistic and cultural values of endangered linguistic or ethnic communities. it is also important to strengthen the teaching of endangered languages to students of all age groups through appropriate methodologies, including distance learning, and to focus more on and support language-related higher education and research. it is equally important to cooperate with international organisations such as unesco, which implement programmes and initiatives for the protection and promotion of endangered languages.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because special attention should be paid to endangered languages, recognising cultural diversity and multilingualism. the category of endangered languages also includes languages that are endangered only in a particular area where the number of people in the community speaking them is declining sharply, and those languages for which the statistics show a significant decline in the number of people speaking a particular language after several consecutive censuses. the european parliament therefore calls on the european union and the member states to pay greater attention to endangered languages and to commit themselves to safeguarding and promoting the unique diversity of the union's linguistic and cultural heritage. it is also important to raise awareness among eu citizens of the linguistic and cultural richness of these communities. member states should draw up action plans for the promotion of endangered languages, building on common good practices already existing in several european language communities. parliament also called on the commission to consider the possibility of implementing specific measures at eu level to protect, preserve and promote endangered languages.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because the european union contributes to the cultural flowering of the member states by respecting their national and regional diversity. the eu's linguistic heritage is seen as a european cultural asset and the initiative aims not only to preserve linguistic diversity but also to promote the enhancement and maintenance of this heritage in complementarity with the cultural policies implemented by the member states. the preservation of languages brings the peoples of the eu together. endangered languages should be seen as part of europe's cultural heritage, not as tools for political, ethnic or territorial ambitions. the proposal includes a number of measures to safeguard the disappearing linguistic heritage, mainly minority languages. the eu and the member states are encouraged to pay greater attention to the particular threat faced by many european languages, which are classified as endangered, and to make a comprehensive commitment to the preservation and promotion of the unique diversity of the eu's linguistic and cultural heritage through an ambitious active policy of revitalization of the languages concerned and adequate budgetary allocations to this end. the commission should propose specific policy measures to protect endangered languages. adapt eu policies and programmes to support endangered languages and linguistic diversity through eu financial support for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. it is essential that the eu makes a proper contribution to the flowering of the cultures of the member states, while respecting their national and regional diversity. it should be noted that the linguistic heritage of the union is regarded as a european cultural asset and that it is necessary not only to preserve linguistic diversity but also to enhance and foster it by complementing the cultural policies implemented by the member states. it is worth noting that the preservation of languages is a bond that unites the peoples of the european union. endangered languages should be considered part of europe's cultural heritage, not as a means to achieve political, ethnic or territorial goals. in this context, it is essential that the eu focuses more on preserving the endangered linguistic heritage. specific policy measures should be established to protect languages and ensure their adequate funding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the ep's rights to appoint the executive directors of the european environment agency (eea). the purpose of the proposal is to amend the procedure for the appointment of the executive director of the eaa. at present, no requirement is included for a candidate selected by the management board of the eaa to be heard by the competent body of the european parliament before his or her appointment. as this requirement applies to other agencies, i support the aim of aligning the procedure for the appointment of the executive director of the eeas with the procedures applicable to the executive directors of other agencies falling within the competence of the envi. this will give the european parliament the formal right to hear the candidate selected by the eaa board before his appointment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for draft amending budget no 2/2013. i support the objective of the proposal in the relevant expenditure categories of the multiannual financial framework, to increase the forecasts for revenue from fines and penalties by eur 290 million and to increase the payment appropriations by eur 11,2 billion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this council position on the amending budget. in particular, the formal commitment of the three institutions must be implemented without any reservations. it is essential that the payments not to be made by the end of 2013 are made in two successive stages. in addition, the new amending budget must also cover the remaining payment deficit identified by the commission in order to avoid any unjustified shortfall in payment appropriations. attention should be drawn to the fact that failure to meet these conditions will make it difficult to reach a compromise on the next multiannual financial framework and the new budget. moreover, mutual trust and loyal cooperation between the institutions will not be guaranteed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for draft amending budget no 3/2013. i support the objective of the proposal to include the budget surplus for the financial year 2012 of eur 1 023,3 million in the 2013 budget. the main components of this surplus are the unused expenditure of eur 244,3 million, the higher than planned revenue of more than eur 719,1 million and the positive exchange rate differentials of eur 59,9 million.
in writing. - i agree with the position set out in the draft resolution. it is essential that the surplus for the financial year 2012 be entered in the 2013 budget, it should be noted that the adoption of this draft amending budget and the entry of these surpluses into the budget will reduce the overall contribution of the member states to the financing of the eu budget accordingly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for draft amending budget no 4/2013 concerning the staff of the european gnss agency, the education, audiovisual and culture executive agency (eacea) and the court of justice of the european union. i support the proposed objective of adding 20 new posts to the staff of the european gnss agency in view of the new tasks assigned to the agency, of adding 2 temporary and 13 contract staff to the staff of the education, audiovisual and culture executive agency respectively, and of adding 7 posts to the staff plan of the court of justice.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to cover the losses caused by the floods in slovenia, croatia and austria in autumn 2012. the proposal seeks to mobilise eur 14 607 942 to support those countries. the heavy rains that occurred at the end of 2012 caused floods that caused significant damage to private and public buildings, water and wastewater infrastructure, businesses and agricultural land and grassland in those states. the total damage caused by the floods is estimated at eur 359,535 million in slovenia, eur 11,463 million in croatia and eur 9,6 million in austria.
in writing. − i support the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for the flood-affected regions of slovenia, croatia and austria. floods in these countries have caused significant adverse effects. the countries affected by these natural disasters are not in a position to repair the damage themselves, and we must show solidarity and provide support to the people of the countries affected by natural disasters. it should be noted that the solidarity fund is the main instrument for demonstrating the union's solidarity and providing operational assistance to the populations and states affected by the disaster. only with the necessary financial assistance will these countries be able to recover and recover more quickly. it will also reduce the burden on public finances.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to cover the losses caused by the floods in slovenia, croatia and austria in autumn 2012. the proposal seeks to mobilise eur 14 607 942 to support those countries. the heavy rains that occurred at the end of 2012 caused floods that caused significant damage to private and public buildings, water and wastewater infrastructure, businesses and agricultural land and grassland in those states. the total damage caused by the floods is estimated at eur 359,535 million in slovenia, eur 11,463 million in croatia and eur 9,6 million in austria.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund (esf) to mobilise eur 14 607 942 in commitment and payment appropriations for the heavy rains and subsequent heavy floods that affected slovenia, croatia and austria in autumn 2012. i also supported the immediate opening of the essf to the countries affected by this natural disaster.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which aims to adopt new rules to limit the production of traditional biofuels and to speed up the transition to new methods of producing this type of fuel, i.e. using waste or seaweed. these new rules would help to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the increasing use of land for biofuel-recyclable crops. i support the proposals set out above to ensure that by 2020 the share of first generation biofuels produced from food crops should not exceed 5,5% of the energy consumed in the transport sector and that the share of advanced biofuels should be at least 2% of that amount. it is also important to take into account the fact that food production is being replaced by the production of biofuels, as land is increasingly used for the cultivation of these fuels, with the consequent increase in greenhouse gas emissions. therefore, indirect land-use change may partially undermine the environmental benefits of biofuels. i also support the energy committee's proposal that the share of first generation biofuels should not exceed 6.5%.
in writing. − in the document adopted today, we have expressed the ep's position on a matter related not only to the promotion of the next generation of biofuels, but also, indirectly, to the rise in food prices and efforts to stop the indiscriminate deforestation of tropical zones. i understand that this decision is not a good fit for traditional biofuel producers, who face some legal uncertainty, but i am convinced that the eu must be a global leader in sustainable energy and the fight against climate change.
in writing. − biofuels are one of the main tools to reduce the eu's energy dependence. however, it is essential that their production is safe, does not pose a risk to the environment and is also based on a balanced approach. we must ensure that the right to food, land and water is properly implemented and that any potential negative social consequences are prevented. it is also essential to reconcile environmental objectives with legitimate business expectations. only by working together can we reduce the harmful side effects on the environment and people. in this context, the use of efficient, cost-effective production technologies and the production of advanced biofuels should be encouraged. the implementation of these measures will reduce the adverse environmental and human side effects of production. more attention should be paid to addressing the consequences of indirect land-use change. on the other hand, the establishment of a competitive, stable and secure energy system requires ensuring adequate project financing and maintaining a clear investment perspective.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. european eel stocks are facing a number of threats: overfishing, loss of key habitats, pollution, parasites, changes in ocean currents due to global climate change, and more. the problems to be solved include: unclear stock size, monitoring and control of the use of eel resources, inconsistent catch and export figures, international black market in eel, etc. according to the latest scientific advice on european eel published by the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) in 2012, the stock situation of european eel is critical and requires urgent action. sources are not within safe biological limits and the current fisheries are not sustainable. i agree with the rapporteur that the current council regulation is not sufficient to ensure the recovery of the european eel population and that a new regulation is therefore needed. i believe that until measures are taken to restore the eel stock to an abundant and biologically safe level, the european eel fishery should be completely stopped.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the establishment of stricter rules for the protection of european eel. over the last three decades, european eel stocks have been depleted to the extent that they have declined by 95 per cent. the european commission intends to propose new rules to protect these fish from extinction by march 2014. i agree with the proposals made to assess the measures for the recovery of the current stocks of eel by october 2013. this would contribute to the development of new safety rules. it is also important that eu countries inform the eu more frequently about the measures they apply to protect european eel. i support the proposals to impose sanctions on those eu countries which delay in providing information on these stocks.
in writing − if you have i voted in favour of this report because there are many threats to european eel stocks, such as overfishing, loss of key habitats, pollution, parasites, changes in ocean currents due to global climate change, etc. so solutions are not easy to come by, and there are many problems. the already complex problems are further complicated by the many uncertainties surrounding several important biological and management aspects of eels. these include the uncertain size of the stock, the lack of a clear understanding of the conditions under which the sex of the eels is formed, and the serious question of whether the eels that are introduced will actually be able to reproduce successfully. the european parliament therefore considers that introduction should be carried out in accordance with clearly defined scientifically based guidelines that limit its geographical scope, ensure that it does not spread diseases and are based on local overabundance of young eels (if such guidelines apply). in addition, a completely different approach could be adopted if member states select sites suitable for recovery, free of barriers, low in pollutants and with high levels of eel survival. member states could, in accordance with the abovementioned guidelines, restore the stock in these areas, and in particular prohibit fishing for eel in these river basins, and use this as the main measure for the conservation of these stocks. these recovery areas could act as marine reserves in the marine environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because european eel stocks have declined by 95% over the last three decades and the european commission must propose new rules to protect this fish from extinction by march 2014. the european parliament also calls for sanctions to be imposed on countries that delay in providing information on european eel stocks. the stock of ungurs is under threat and eu countries are making too little effort to restore it. the ep therefore calls on the commission to draw up new rules for the recovery of eel stocks, which would close the loopholes in the current rules that have allowed the stocks to be depleted. parliament has included provisions requiring member states to report more frequently on the impact of their measures to manage eel stocks, i.e. every two years, rather than every six years as is the case now. eu countries that have failed to comply with this requirement are offered a reduction of their eel quota by half. the decline of european eels is likely to be caused by overfishing, pollution or even changes in ocean currents, as eels migrate from oceans to rivers and back. so far, no commercial return has been achieved from the recovery of eel stocks in the catching areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this amendment to the regulation. the eel is one of the most valuable fish in eu waters, but its stock is being depleted at a very fast rate. in view of this, urgent action is necessary to deplete the european eel stock. in particular, the most advanced scientific research and the most recent recommendations should be applied. it is necessary to support and encourage investments directly linked to the recovery and conservation of european eel stocks. i support the proposal to reclassify the powers conferred on the commission into delegated and implementing powers. it is worth noting that long-term solutions are needed to achieve the objectives set, as the stocks of this fish are beyond biological safety in many countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the customs union is an important element of the eu's single market, and the single market can only function properly if uniform and modern customs rules and systems are applied consistently. i agree with the rapporteur that customs rules need to be simplified and based on the application of advanced systems. we need to achieve a uniform approach to customs controls, with information being provided only once by the economic operator, thus facilitating competitiveness and growth. i note that the criteria for applying the rules of origin and preferential origin are also very important elements to be included in the basic document (act).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a union customs code. the provisions of the union customs code are brought into line with the treaty of lisbon by means of a new version. the customs union is an important factor in the functioning of the single market, which only functions if uniform and modern customs rules and systems are consistently applied. i support the proposals set out here to follow updated and simplified customs rules, based on advanced systems and providing the possibility of harmonising checks. i agree that it is important to encourage member states to use modern electronic data-processing tools and to include criteria for the application of rules of origin in the code.
in writing. − i supported this proposal because the customs union is an important factor in the functioning of the single market, and the single market can only function properly if uniform and modern customs rules and systems are applied consistently.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion. the new union customs code will provide the appropriate legal basis for further modernisation and harmonisation of customs activities in the european union. in particular, compliance with updated and simplified customs rules based on advanced systems and providing for the possibility of harmonising controls will be encouraged. it will also create the right conditions for the gradual introduction of information systems and the transition from paper-based documents to the use of electronic data. it should be noted that the provisions relating to the establishment of information systems allow for certain exceptions and transitional periods. this is essential for the implementation of information systems and for the rational use of funds. the draft regulation also provides for the possibility for member states to carry out tests (pilot projects) where it is not yet possible or appropriate to implement the relevant functionalities at union level or where it is simply desirable to test them first.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the creation of a network for the collection of data on the income and economic activity of agricultural holdings in the european community. the proposal relates to the farm accountancy data network (fadn), established in 1965 to meet the requirements of the common agricultural policy (cap) for the verification of incomes and the analysis of the economic activity of agricultural holdings. it collects data on the income, costs and production of a specific sample of agricultural holdings representative of the eu. the eafrd also assists the commission in calculating a wide range of indicators relating to revenue, productivity and production costs. the proposal under consideration does not have a significant impact on the ets, but it does introduce some technical changes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because it is an important tool for the preparation and evaluation of agricultural policy, since it collects data on the income, costs and production of a specific sample of agricultural holdings representing the eu on an annual basis. this instrument helps the commission to analyse the economic and structural situation and to calculate a wide range of indicators relating to income, productivity and production costs.
in writing. - i support the amendment of this regulation. it should be noted that the network for the collection of data on the income and economic activity accounts of agricultural holdings is an important tool for the preparation and evaluation of agricultural policy. it is used to collect data on the income, costs and production of a specific sample of agricultural holdings representing the eu on an annual basis. in this context, it is necessary to monitor this network on a continuous basis and to ensure its smooth operation. however, in all cases, no additional burden should be imposed on the member states. i therefore support the proposal to exempt the list of accountancy firms from the obligation to provide a list of accountancy firms in the respondent holding. in addition, in order to properly implement the provisions of the regulation, the power to adopt delegated acts should be delegated to the commission in respect of the establishment of the economic size limit of the returning holdings and the number of returning holdings in each district.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a partial amendment of the provisions of the food safety directives concerning the powers of the commission. i support the proposal to align the provisions of the food safety directives with the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because it seeks to align the commission's implementing powers in existing council directives with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. the proposal states that the current so-called 'dawn' directives do not give the commission adequate powers to adapt or update the technical provisions of the annexes without delay in order to take account of developments in the relevant international standards and/or technical progress. it is therefore proposed to empower the commission to adopt delegated acts where necessary. it is also proposed to repeal the commission's power to align the provisions of these 'breakfast' directives with the general principles and requirements of eu food law. at present, the granting of such a power is no longer appropriate as the general provisions of the union food law laid down in regulation (ec) no 178/2002 apply directly to the products covered by those directives.
in writing. - i support these amendments to the regulation. in particular, the commission should be empowered to react quickly and expeditiously to developments in the relevant international standards and technical progress, and should therefore be empowered to adapt or update the technical provisions of the annexes. however, it is essential that the objectives, content, scope and duration of the delegation of power granted to it be clearly defined and that the essential provisions are not altered by delegated acts. in order to avoid any ambiguity, i therefore support the proposal to limit the delegation to a period of five years. it is appropriate to pay attention to the fact that other institutions should also be adequately and timely informed about the adoption and the results of delegated acts.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for an agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas for citizens of the republic of cape verde and of the european union. the strengthening of relations between the eu and cape verde aims at simplifying the procedure for issuing visas to cape verdean and eu citizens for stays of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period. simplified conditions for issuing visas to members of governments or permanent members of official delegations and for issuing multiple-entry visas valid for one year to researchers, journalists and students are also introduced. in addition, all applicants for a visa may request the payment of documentation costs up to a maximum of eur 30. the visa liberalisation will reduce the time and cost of preparing for travel to the schengen area, and i therefore support this proposal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas will strengthen the relations between the european union and cape verde and will help to improve the administration of justice and ensure greater respect for the freedoms and rights of the individual. the republic of cape verde is a democratic and stable country. like the european union, cape verde promotes the values and principles of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. in 2007, the commission adopted a communication on the future relationship between the european union and cape verde, recognising the strong and at the same time special historical links between the two countries, marked by close human and cultural ties and shared social and political values. the strict requirements and the excellent management practices of which this country can boast fully justify the further development of relations with the european union. in addition, the eu-cape verde special partnership has committed the european union to a policy that goes beyond the normal donor-recipient relationship and aims to strengthen the eu's relations with cape verde, to promote good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and the fight against poverty, culture and the development of an information and knowledge society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because the agreement on visa facilitation is of great importance for citizens' lives. the visa liberalisation will reduce the time and the cost of preparing for travel to the schengen area. the agreement also facilitates contacts between citizens, which is a prerequisite for developing economic, cultural, scientific and other links. the visa regime also strengthens the links between peoples and implements the principle of free movement, which is one of the fundamental rights of the european union. strengthening relations between the european union and cape verde will indeed help to improve the administration of justice and ensure greater respect for freedoms.
in writing. - i am in favour of concluding this agreement. i believe it is very important to strengthen the eu's relations and political dialogue with the cape verdean islands in a comprehensive manner. this agreement will ensure better administration of justice and greater respect for freedoms. it is worth noting that greater stability and security will help to solve many of the problems of migration. the simplification of the short-stay visa regime for citizens of the republic of cape verde and of the european union will allow the development of economic, humanitarian, cultural, scientific and other mutually beneficial relations to be carried out more effectively. the new regime will simplify the movement of certain categories of persons and will prevent illegal immigration through the measures it lays down.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for an agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde on the facilitation of the issuance of short-stay visas for citizens of the republic of cape verde and of the european union. the strengthening of relations between the eu and cape verde aims at simplifying the procedure for issuing visas to cape verdean and eu citizens for stays of no more than 90 days in any 180-day period. simplified conditions for issuing visas to members of governments or permanent members of official delegations and for issuing multiple-entry visas valid for one year to researchers, journalists and students are also introduced. in addition, all applicants for a visa may request the payment of documentation costs up to a maximum of eur 30. visa liberalisation will reduce the time and cost of preparing for travel to the schengen area, and i therefore support this proposal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the agreement between the european union and the republic of cape verde on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation will help to strengthen relations between the european union and cape verde and will help to improve the administration of justice and ensure greater respect for the freedoms and rights of the individual. the readmission obligations are established on the basis of the principle of full reciprocity. these obligations apply to eu citizens and to third-country nationals and stateless persons. the readmission obligations of eu citizens also cover family members, i.e. spouse and minor unmarried children. in the context of the technical rules, it should be emphasised that all readmission requests must be in writing and must be accompanied by means of proof of nationality. it is also important to include sections on transit operations, the necessary data protection rules and the position of the agreement on other existing eu international commitments and directives in the readmission agreement. finally, it is essential that the european parliament be involved and informed in the opening and consideration of negotiations for the signing of such an agreement.
in writing. − i agreed to the proposal because the readmission obligations are based on the principle of full reciprocity. these obligations apply to eu citizens and to third-country nationals and stateless persons. the readmission obligations of eu citizens also cover family members, i.e. spouse and minor unmarried children. in this respect, the strengthening of relations between the european union and cape verde will indeed help to improve the administration of justice and ensure greater respect for freedoms.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement. security and readmission issues must play a special role in strengthening political dialogue and bilateral relations. the agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation will extend the scope of the area of freedom, security and justice beyond the european union and will also contribute to the strengthening and expansion of relations between the european union and the republic of cape verde. it should be noted that the readmission obligations in the agreement are based on the principle of full reciprocity. it is essential to ensure that parliament is given a greater role and is able to participate more actively and be informed in the opening and consideration of negotiations for the signing of such agreements.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. we know that one of the eu's most painful problems is the enormous youth unemployment, which is causing the eu to suffer particularly heavy losses, and in europe we are already talking about a lost generation. i would remind you that in january 2013 the youth unemployment rate in greece was 59,1%, in spain it was 55,9% and in lithuania half as much (eurostat data 21,4%), but still very high. as a result, the implementation of the eu youth strategy was associated with considerable expectations. the youth strategy covers education and learning, employment and entrepreneurship, health and well-being, social inclusion, participation, volunteering, culture and creativity, youth and the world. the high unemployment rate forces young people to emigrate, which reduces competitiveness and economic growth. the transition from education to work is a particularly important stage in the life of every young person, as the beginning of a career is of great importance for the future career and personality development of the young person. eu member states only partially use the eu structural funds to support education, employment or training, and member states should make the most of all available eu funding opportunities and all the solutions offered under the youth opportunities initiative, thus helping young people who are not in employment, education or training. in addition, the eu youth strategy should aim to help vulnerable young people, with a focus on the overall participation of young people in civil society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the evaluation of the implementation of the eu youth strategy 2010-2012. the aim of the proposal is not only to assess progress towards the objectives of the overall eu youth strategy but also to provide a framework for setting priorities for the next phase of the action. youth unemployment rates in the eu are very high, with around 23% of young people out of work. the number of unemployed under 25 years of age is already around 5.5 million, and urgent action is essential. the next phase, as in the past, will focus on youth employment and target those who are neither working nor in education. i agree that one of the key solutions to this problem is the full implementation of the youth opportunities initiative and the use of all the eu funding opportunities it provides.
in writing. − i voted for this report because, given the limited scope of the strategy, it aims to highlight, propose and contribute to solutions to the most complex problems facing young people today. the main objective remains to strengthen the policies pursued by member states to achieve their best results and to achieve their objectives. the report also seeks to highlight issues not covered by the current eu youth strategy. for example, the role of new technologies and social media cannot be ignored, as their impact on all aspects of young people's lives - from employment and participation to entertainment and self-expression - is increasing exponentially these days. it should be noted that, in implementing the eu youth strategy, europe has, for the first time in its history, the means, policies and mechanisms to respond in an integrated manner to the challenges facing young people today. this is indeed a step forward, but it should not be taken as sufficient to reverse the effects of a crisis which, in some cases, has spread much faster than we have been able to react. the key now is to adapt these measures starting with a new multiannual financial programme and a new eu programme for education, training, youth and sport and ending with new initiatives (european youth guarantee, etc.) to ensure the best outcomes for young people.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the continuing economic crisis has a major impact on young people's lives in terms of their well-being and social inclusion, employment, access to housing, healthcare, education, learning opportunities, cultural activities, leisure and sport, and is leading to an unprecedented lack of opportunities for young people in the eu. a large part of europe is at risk of a 'lost generation' and this dangerous situation requires urgent measures, policies and actions, as well as structural reforms. deteriorating economic conditions, especially in countries severely affected by the crisis, can encourage involuntary youth migration, which can be manifested in mass brain drain, leading to reduced opportunities for medium- and long-term growth, development and innovation in the countries of origin. in response to the economic crisis, several member states implemented stringent austerity measures, including significant cuts in spending on education, training and lifelong learning programmes. these measures have a detrimental impact, in particular, on youth employment in certain member states, and in many cases encourage a large brain drain from these regions, thus increasing inequalities in the eu. the aim is to highlight the most complex problems facing young people today, to propose solutions and to contribute to the search for these solutions. the main objective remains to strengthen the policies pursued by member states to achieve their best results and to achieve their objectives.
in writing. − in the member states, with the economic crisis still unabated and the worrying youth unemployment problem still being tackled, the search for ways and means to increase youth participation and reduce youth unemployment is ongoing. the number of persons not in employment, education or training in the union has reached a dangerous level the unemployment rate for young people under 25 reached 23.5% in march 2013. strategic investment from the eu structural funds is crucial for financing regional development, competitiveness and the creation of quality practices and traineeships and long-term jobs. particular attention should be paid to rural areas and areas where there are no favourable conditions for job creation. i therefore fully support the view that the negotiations for a new multiannual financial framework should increase funding for youth and education policy, the 'youth in action' programme and appropriate funding. i also support the idea of equating volunteering with work experience, because any experience gained is valuable.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the first cycle of the youth strategy is of unquestionable importance in order to combat the particularly high levels of youth unemployment and social exclusion across the eu. much has been done, but not enough, as the number of young people with no education and no work has reached dangerous levels. so in the next phase of the strategy, we must also make even greater efforts to provide young people with real and tangible employment opportunities and to encourage their active participation in society. the youth strategy must become the basis for the creation of quality jobs. it must enable young people to live independently and without poverty. in particular, it is necessary to address the problem of school leaving and to encourage more active participation of young people in society. it is necessary to facilitate the acquisition of the necessary skills by young people and the finding of work directly linked to the needs of the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on possible solutions to the problem of youth unemployment. youth unemployment is one of the most pressing problems facing the european union today. the unemployment rate for all people of working age is 11%, and the unemployment rate for young people is twice as high (23%). some youths have been forced to leave their home countries or even continents in search of attractive jobs. the most common barriers to employment are lack of experience and skills. there are currently over 5.5 million unemployed people under 25 years of age in the european union. the figures vary widely between member states: in germany and austria, youth unemployment is below 9%, and in greece and spain, which have been hit by the crisis, it is as high as 55%. the figures are not encouraging and a rapid and effective solution to this problem is therefore needed. i agree with the rapporteur that action to combat youth unemployment must be combined with action to promote overall economic recovery and reform employment policies. in other words, initiatives are needed that not only support entrepreneurship but also help to maintain as many jobs as possible. measures to encourage entrepreneurs to create new jobs are also needed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on possible solutions to the problem of youth unemployment. youth unemployment rates in the eu are very high: around 23% of young people are out of work. the number of unemployed under 25 is already about 5.5 million, and it is essential that immediate action is taken. i support the proposals set out here to implement the 'youth guarantee' initiative as soon as possible to ensure employment, further education, vocational training or traineeship for young people under the age of 25. it is necessary to modernise education by reforming education policy and improving the system of individual vocational guidance, which should be available at secondary school level. young people should be encouraged to take up self-employment and professional mobility should be encouraged. it is important to ensure that young people have access to high-quality training and that the providers receive financial support. it is also necessary for member states to recognise non-formal education, i.e. skills acquired outside the formal education system.
in writing. − i voted for this report because we must do more to tackle youth unemployment and in no way save at the expense of the future of young people. the future of the european union depends on the youth of today. the report proposes a number of measures. i believe that they are all important and necessary, as this problem can only be solved by a complex set of policies at national and european union level. i would say that the key measure is to improve the transition of young people from education to the labour market. it is necessary to find the most effective mechanisms for matching acquired competences, practical experience and labour market needs. i would like to support the proposal in the report to extend the statistical concept to young people aged 15 to 24. it is important to note that young people are now studying for longer periods and are often trying to enter the labour market after the age of 24. this process often takes years. therefore, measures to reduce unemployment must target young people up to the age of at least 30. i would also like to point out that it should not be understood that special measures are needed only when youth unemployment in a country is above 25%. i think even 20 or 24 percent unemployment is a painful enough problem to deal with. moreover, these figures are constantly changing and should not affect the long-term measures to reduce youth unemployment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because the situation of young people in the labour market is currently very difficult. unemployment among all people of working age is 11%, and among young people it is twice as high, at 23%. there are currently over 5.5 million unemployed people under 25 years of age in the european union. it is therefore quite understandable that this problem needs to be addressed immediately. all actions taken by the member states must be evaluated in terms of their effectiveness, the effectiveness of the mechanisms put in place must be checked and the funds used must be properly accounted for. the very difficult situation of young people requires a decisive intervention and investment of the appropriate resources, but in the current economic situation in europe, where a policy of financial consolidation prevails, these resources must be allocated with a high degree of precision and must significantly improve the situation.
in writing. − today's europe continues to face not theory but practice, which looks at concrete social and economic problems through the eyes of millions of young europeans without work. given the impact of the crisis on young people, we cannot afford to sit idly by, we must go further and create equal opportunities for young people in the labour market and promote social inclusion. first, the causes of unemployment must be identified and addressed. we have to help a lot of young people out of poverty. specific active labour market measures need to be implemented at eu level and adequate funding allocated to this end. we must seek closer cooperation between academic institutions and business and ensure a smooth transition from the education system to the labour market. we need to build a network of industry and business. in addition, companies should benefit from tax incentives and other financial incentives. in this context, tax incentive schemes and employment subsidies should be established in each member state.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i agree that youth unemployment is a priority issue on the eu agenda. the figures speak for themselves in greece and spain, where the economic crisis has hit hard, some 55% of young people under 25 are unemployed. in other countries, the situation is less dramatic, but statistics show that more and more young people are only getting temporary contracts, and it is becoming increasingly difficult for them to gain a foothold in the labour market. both the eu and the member states, in cooperation with the private sector and academic institutions, need to look for possible solutions to prevent this generation from becoming a 'lost generation'. labour mobility between eu countries can reduce social tensions somewhat, but here we often face the problem of 'mind-flow' that is so relevant to lithuania. while only 2% of people in the eu as a whole live outside their country of origin, the numbers of people leaving the new eu countries are much higher. the economically weaker eu countries are losing young professionals to a heavy toll. i think we should find a mechanism at eu level to at least partially compensate for the costs of training the professionals who leave.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the internal market in services, on the assessment of the current situation and the next steps. services a new, dynamic, modern and promising market driver whose importance in the economy is growing every day. the services sector generates more than 65% of the eu's gross domestic product (gdp). it is safe to say that a better functioning internal market for services is the basis for a more competitive european economy. since 2006, the services directive has been and remains an important driver of structural reforms in the european services sector. however, three years after the deadline for transposition of this directive, it is not yet fully and properly applied in all member states. there are plenty of examples of cases where bureaucratic red tape and obstacles have slowed down economic growth, caused citizens to lose their jobs and caused discriminatory practices to undermine citizens' trust in the single market. as practice shows, there are many different requirements for enterprises which, taken individually, would appear to be unfair, but which, taken together, place a heavy burden on service providers, especially smes. the economic crisis and its perceived effects call for urgent action to unlock the full potential of the services sector to boost growth and create jobs. in this area, coherent and coordinated action throughout the european union is of particular importance.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is time to act, given that, in the face of rising unemployment and a deteriorating budgetary situation, the services sector is more than ever a source of competitiveness, growth and job creation that cannot be ignored. thus, unnecessary and disproportionate administrative burdens, discriminatory practices and unjustified restrictions on the provision of services across the european union are blocking important sources of economic growth, hampering job creation and causing business opportunities to be lost. it is therefore essential to set better performance indicators for the single market, based on real experience and expectations of businesses and consumers, in order to improve functionality and to increase their knowledge of the various rights that can be exercised to ensure access to the single market for services. furthermore, in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market for services, it is necessary to link it to sector-specific rules which may require additional authorisations, which lead to increased costs, in particular for businesses. the commission should therefore assist member states in addressing the significant problems identified by them in the implementation and application of eu single market legislation, including problems relating to the improvement of transposition, compliance gaps and the provision of swift and effective judicial remedies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because it aims to remind member states of their responsibility to apply the content and substance of the services directive fully and correctly. the economic crisis has made it even more urgent to act to unlock the full potential of the services sector to boost growth and create jobs. the services sector generates more than 65% of eu gdp. this sector is a dynamic, modern and promising part of the european economy. innovation is constantly encouraging the emergence of different modes of service provision. digital and mobile services are changing the way the economy works. goods and services are increasingly sold together as a single package. in addition, we see an increasing convergence of services and a growing interconnection between the service and manufacturing sectors. for all these reasons, a better functioning internal market for services is therefore the basis for a more competitive european economy as a whole. however, there are still many examples of high bureaucracy and obstacles to growth, where citizens lose jobs and where discriminatory practices reduce citizens' trust in the single market, and this situation needs to be corrected and improved.
in writing. − by enabling the free movement of services between member states in the eu's founding documents, we must ensure that this movement is real and effective. i therefore support the position expressed in this document that it is necessary to continue to remove obstacles to the free movement of services, while ensuring the appropriate quality of services provided in several member states and the responsibility and accountability of service providers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. i believe that more decisive action is needed to promote economic prosperity and the creation of quality jobs. the services directive must be properly implemented in all member states and existing obstacles to the free movement of services across borders must be removed. in this context, it is necessary to implement the governance of the internal market for advanced services. moreover, the single market performance indicators should be based on the experience and expectations of enterprises and consumers. particular attention shall be paid to the quality of the services provided to end-users. it is essential that consumers have more choice in the single market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as malaysia is an important trading partner of the eu the second largest trading partner of the eu in asean. we, the members of the european parliament, encourage the eu council, the commission and the european external action service to strengthen relations with this country and to conclude negotiations on a partnership and cooperation agreement in a timely manner. i am confident that the eu-malaysia partnership and cooperation agreement will provide unique opportunities to develop new bilateral relations, including cooperation in areas such as trade, energy, science and technology, migration, human rights and fundamental freedoms, social standards and working conditions. i stress the need to intensify the eu-malaysia policy dialogue in areas such as environmental protection, green technologies and climate change.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a negotiated partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and malaysia. i support the proposals to conclude the negotiations on partnership and cooperation agreements with the seven countries of the association of southeast asian nations (asean), to extend the eu's commitments in the areas of trade, energy, science and technology, migration, the fight against terrorism, human rights and fundamental freedoms, good governance, social standards and working conditions, the fight against corruption, trafficking in human beings and non-proliferation of weapons. the eu and malaysia also need to intensify their political dialogue on environmental protection, green technologies and climate change. it is important to support the pursuit of academic exchanges and cooperation through the erasmus mundus programme and to further develop tourism between the eu and malaysia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the negotiation of a partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and malaysia, which will provide a unique opportunity to create a new level of strategic and political foundation for bilateral relations, to extend the eu's commitments in a number of areas of common interest, such as cooperation in the fields of trade, energy, science and technology, migration, the fight against terrorism, human rights and fundamental freedoms, good governance, social standards and working conditions, the fight against corruption, trafficking in human beings and non-proliferation of weapons. the agreement will help to intensify the eu-malaysia political dialogue on environment, green technologies and climate change. in order to ensure human rights in malaysia, the european parliament calls on malaysia to further involve the productive and active malaysian civil society in the decision-making process and to lift the restrictions on civil society; welcomes the efforts of civil society to focus on environmental issues, women's rights, consumer protection, the rights of indigenous and other ethnic groups, media freedom, social justice, human rights and the rights of religious minorities. it is also essential to ensure freedom of expression, assembly and association in the country and to promote the application of the social and labour standards established by the international labour organisation.
in writing. − i supported the proposal to strengthen the eu's relations with the countries of south-east asia, in particular malaysia, and to this end to conclude in a timely manner the negotiations on the partnership and cooperation agreements with the seven countries of the association of south-east asian nations (asean); to raise awareness of the eu's importance, the great potential associated with these relations and the multifaceted nature of these relations. the eu-malaysia partnership and cooperation agreement will provide unique opportunities to build a new level of strategic and political foundation for bilateral relations, to expand the eu's commitments in a wide range of areas of common interest, including cooperation on trade, energy, science and technology, migration, counter-terrorism, human rights and fundamental freedoms, good governance, social standards and working conditions, the fight against corruption, trafficking in human beings and non-proliferation of weapons, and to intensify the eu-malaysia political dialogue on environmental protection, green technologies and climate change.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. in particular, it is essential to ensure that bilateral relations and political dialogue are developed in accordance with the principles of equality, mutual respect, mutual benefit, democracy, the rule of law and human rights. particular attention shall be paid to the implementation of the principle of sustainable development and environmental protection requirements in addressing the issue of intensive deforestation in malaysia. indonesia, the third most populous country in asia and the world's largest muslim country, requires continuous strengthening of political, economic and sectoral cooperation in a wide range of policy areas. in addition, the economic and social progress of the population should be promoted and improved development outcomes should be achieved. the agreement thus has a special role to play. it must become a model for intercultural and interreligious dialogue on a global scale.
rapporteur. − mr president, over the past 19 years parliament has adopted 37 resolutions exclusively on belarus. however, for what is probably the first time, we are discussing belarus and its relations with the eu not by reacting to the frequent negative news from this country, but rather by trying to analyse the situation and thus propose concrete policy actions. i would like to thank the 25 colleagues who tabled amendments to my recommendation and especially the shadow rapporteurs – jacek protasiewicz, werner schulz, johannes cornelis van baalen, paveł kowal. also of course commissioner stefan füle, officials from the eeas, the commission, as well as staff members of the committee on foreign affairs and my political group, and last, but not least, many citizens of belarus for constructive cooperation. some influential european politicians believe that belarus is lost to the eu. therefore, one might argue we should turn our backs on the country and focus on other eu neighbours. i strongly disagree with such an opinion. in this case we would turn our backs not only on the authorities, but more importantly on 10 million belarusian citizens, most of whom wish for closer relations with the eu. we recommend taking advantage of the lithuanian presidency and the eastern partnership summit in vilnius as an opportunity to improve relations with belarus, as soon as all political prisoners have been released of course, and to restart the political dialogue on, inter alia, democratic reforms, free and fair elections, and respect for human rights. it is important that the majority of opposition parties in belarus favour this position. the conditionality and ‘more for more’ principle in eu-belarus relations are particularly emphasised in the text. we emphasise that the general situation concerning respect for human rights remains deplorable. therefore, we urge belarus to lift any obstacles and restrictions to the exercise of freedoms of association, expression, movement, peaceful assembly, thoughts, for the democratic opposition and ngos. we recommend encouraging the wider civil society, including trade unions and business representatives as well as the political opposition, alongside officials, to increase their involvement in the dialogue on modernisation. it is a very important instrument and should be used for strengthening people’s understanding of the need for reforms and for the development also of an appropriate social net. the eu, however, distanced itself from belarus with a kind of financial visa wall. i mean the ungraspably high visa fees of eur 60. it is depressing to see all the queues for the consular departments in the eu states’ embassies in minsk. at the border checkpoints to eu states, lorry queues extend for 15 kilometres and more, and sometimes the infrastructure on the belarusian side is better than on the eu side. i believe that all these and other artificial barriers should be broken down as soon as possible. the eu should open all gates, doors and even windows for more people-to-people contacts. this recommendation, i believe, will send a strong signal that the european union is not turning its back on belarus despite these difficult 19 years of strained relations. this country in the centre of europe, i am sure is not and will not be lost to europe.
for the efd group belarus' participation in the european union's eastern partnership is a positive sign of the country's commitment to europe. it is very important that belarus continues to participate in european union initiatives and to make efforts to develop bilateral cooperation. in submitting my questions to the european commission, i noted that belarusian citizens face undue difficulties in moving across the border, and i therefore welcome parliament's proposal to consider unilaterally simplifying the issuing of visas and reducing their cost to the amount affordable to belarusian citizens, as well as the call to make full use of the flexibilities provided for in the visa code, including the possibility of abolishing or reducing the fee for short-stay visas. and especially young people, in order to facilitate and intensify people-to-people contacts and help prevent further isolation of belarusian citizens. today, more than 40 lithuanian municipalities cooperate very productively with partner cities in neighbouring belarus. i hope that this cooperation will only grow stronger in the future. lithuania has a saying: 'a good neighbour is twice as good as a bad relative', so the european union should be the good neighbour today, so that belarus can be the same tomorrow.
rapporteur. − madam president, i believe that this discussion has shown that the issue of political prisoners is an absolute priority for parliament and for the eu. at the same time, as commissioner füle said, there is a chance that there could be some movement in the right direction, especially before the summit in vilnius. i believe that those who tabled amendments and who worked on this recommendation tried to create a set of proposals which would also encourage contacts between two countries and of course with the aim of creating a situation where political prisoners in this country would be past, so to say, their impossible situation. i believe it is important that in october there is to be a revision of the sanctions or, as the commission says in a very polite way, the ‘restricted measures’ against belarus. we suggest that this should be done in a very thorough way in order to improve their effectiveness and adapt their scope, nature and validity, reacting to the developments in that country and in their relations with the eu. as has been said, minsk has time to show its real intentions. there was debate about the world ice hockey championships in belarus. i very much support the opinion of commissioner füle. i believe that those who intend to affect their supreme authorities with this step could instead affect the ordinary people of belarus. i believe that it was useful to speak not only about the human rights situation in belarus – we have done so many times – but about the strategy of our relations with belarus.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this annual report of the european ombudsman for 2012. in particular, it is to be welcomed that the ombudsman has done an excellent job in strengthening and developing the dialogue with citizens, civil society, institutions and other stakeholders at all levels. the public administration principles package he has launched will ensure greater transparency and accountability in the public sector. it is worth noting that the eu is currently facing a very serious problem of lack of trust from citizens. in order to address this problem, minimum quality standards and procedural guarantees are essential. the eu institutions must be able to respond to citizens' concerns. it is essential to ensure that complaints, investigations and decision-making procedures are more operational in the future. in addition, the links between citizens and institutions should be developed continuously. given the importance of the ombudsman's own-initiative inquiries, i believe that the new ombudsman should actively exercise this right and make good use of the experience acquired by the ombudsman.
in writing. − the use of chemical weapons is a challenge to all countries. but the conflict in syria should be resolved through diplomacy. i am not in favour of any military intervention which could have very painful consequences. it will also further destabilise and worsen the situation not only in the country but also in the region. i think the world has enough tools to affect the syrian regime without using weapons. the international community should therefore not hesitate and should act as soon as possible to prevent violations of international law and violence in the country. there should be no foreign military intervention. it is worth noting that a new approach to political processes in the world's hotspots and a much more intensive diplomatic dialogue between states are needed today.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because when the financial crisis hit europe in 2008, there were 27 different banking regulatory frameworks based on national rules and national rescue mechanisms. some coordination was carried out at european level, but it involved exchanges of information and more informal cooperation procedures. this was not sufficient to address the financial sector crisis that has been felt in the union in recent years. the proposed banking union would change the approach to the supervision of euro area banks by establishing a single supervisory mechanism within the european central bank. i support the single supervisory mechanism in the euro area, and the need to further strengthen the european banking authority and ensure its proper functioning in order to improve the internal market in financial services and avoid a split between euro-zone and non-euro-zone members in terms of rules applicable to the financial sector.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution tabled. an effective and well-functioning single banking supervisory mechanism must be established in the european union. it is noted that this mechanism is a necessary measure to reduce the fragmentation of european financial markets that has emerged during the crisis, as well as to ensure financial stability and to restore confidence in the european banking system. this is the first pillar of the banking union and an important step towards restoring the normal functioning of the lending market and thus contributing to the economic recovery. in view of the objectives pursued, it is necessary to strengthen the european banking authority and ensure its proper functioning. it is also essential that common rules apply in the eu and that the supervisory mechanism is strengthened. the implementation of the envisaged provisions will provide a strong and stable banking union based on the principles of checks and balances and accountability.
in writing. − this communication gives the european central bank the task of establishing the eu banking supervisory framework. it's the right move. it will help to enhance the transparency and accountability of banks. from september next year, the european central bank will be responsible for supervising the 150 largest eu banks. it will have to develop common supervisory guidelines that other eu banks can follow. i agree with the rapporteur who emphasises the unrestricted access of this supervisory authority to bank documents, the possibility to conduct bank tests under the most unfavourable conditions for them. i support the provision in the report that other eu countries not yet in the euro area can join the banking supervision system. this would allow them to participate in decision-making on an equal footing.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in order to restore financial stability and accelerate economic recovery, particular attention should be paid to enhancing the integration of the banking sector. given the importance of the european central bank, it is appropriate to entrust it with specific tasks relating to the prudential policy for the supervision of credit institutions. this will ensure strict supervision of large banks, a high level of consumer protection and the prevention of money laundering. it should be noted that the ecb will not act alone in supervising large banks, but will have to cooperate closely with national supervisors. issues such as consumer protection, prevention of money laundering, supervision of financial services and markets, supervision of credit unions and of foreign branches of third-country banks will be addressed at national level.
in writing. − this document is an implementation of the nagoya protocol to the convention on biological diversity on access to genetic resources and the fair sharing of benefits. the entry and exchange of genetic resources in the eu is always a two-way process, with often unequal participants. i am pleased that the rapporteurs have succeeded in improving the commission's proposal by ensuring that the interests of third countries or communities providing genetic material are also taken into account.
in writing. − i support the proposed amendments to the regulation which contribute to the promotion of the exploitation and commercialisation of genetic resources and the associated traditional knowledge. it is worth noting that a large proportion of the world's population is directly dependent on biodiversity as a source of income. it is therefore essential that the legal, administrative and political measures provided for are properly implemented. this will ensure full environmental and development policy coherence and sustainable access to genetic resources for european consumers. the new legal framework must not only ensure adequate protection of biodiversity but also serve as a basis for developing partnerships between developing and developed countries. to prevent the loss of biodiversity in the world, we must contribute to the conservation and sustainable use of its components.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because micro-generation is a major boost for the internal energy market. it is important to note that microgeneration helps to control one's energy consumption, reduce one's energy purchases and thus protect against energy poverty. it is therefore essential to implement coordinated actions and ensure uniform legal regulation in the field of small-scale energy generation. given the benefits of micro-generation, i believe that its systems should be integrated into urban planning projects. member states should encourage the construction of positive energy buildings. in this context, new targeted financial instruments should be developed and incentive schemes should be applied. general guidance should apply to regulators and system operators. in addition, bureaucratic obstacles must be removed and the permitting process facilitated.
in writing. − we have already discussed in parliament a number of documents calling for the reduction of any gender pay gap. this resolution is further evidence that progress is not sufficient and that wage disparities still exist between member states. i hope that the year 2020 enshrined in the resolution will be decisive for the harmonisation of remuneration. of course, this objective should not be pursued in an unambiguous way, but should take account of differences in activity and employment levels, different wage structures and other indicators.
in writing. −remuneration should not depend on the gender of the employees but on the quality of the work they do. it is therefore necessary to prevent any form of discrimination. it is essential that the right to a fair wage is properly implemented in the eu. workers, regardless of their sex, must receive a salary commensurate with their duties. both men and women must be paid equal pay for equal work, which depends on the qualifications of the worker, the complexity of the work, the quantity and quality of the work performed. it should be noted that education, high qualifications, work experience and other similar factors must be the main precondition for higher wages.
in writing. − in the 21st century, men and women in the european union still receive different pay for the same work. although the eu wage gap has decreased from 17.7% to 16.4% between 2006 and 2010, the positive trend is very slow. i support the call in the resolution for the commission to support member states' efforts through the exchange of experience and implementation policies. i agree to aim to eliminate the pay gap by 2020.
in writing. − cyber challenges are closely linked to national security, the europe 2020 goals are also strongly linked to the digital space, and cybercrime is becoming an increasingly costly international problem. there are many examples that show that the response to this challenge must be taken very seriously and that it can no longer be postponed. this is also reflected in some of the attacks against my country, which currently holds the presidency of the council of the eu. member states must adopt their national cybersecurity strategies without delay and the european union must develop a common approach. it is necessary to establish an eu solidarity mechanism in cases where a cyber-attack is carried out against a state.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. as cybersecurity is a very important and specific activity, consistent and detailed legal regulation is already required. an effective eu cybersecurity policy must ensure a secure, open and trusted digital environment. it must be based on the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. it is noted that closer cooperation is needed to combat cybercrime and to ensure the protection of cyberspace against cyberattacks. we must achieve cyber resilience and radically reduce the number of cybercrimes. the eu must have strong and effective laws against cybercrime. particular attention shall be paid to synergies between the private and public sectors in order to protect cyber resources against cyber-attacks. only by working together can we ensure the growth of a secure digital economy, increase the resilience of information systems and strengthen the eu's international cybersecurity policy and cyber defence.
in writing. − following the us data-tracking scandal, data protection has become one of the top issues on the european union's agenda. eu governments are declaring war on the security of their citizens' data, and they are going to invest in that security creation and research. i voted in favour of this resolution because it calls for legislative initiatives at eu level to ensure that the eu-wide legal framework for this area is uniform. we also need to regulate modern security requirements for software, so that non-compliant applications do not reach the market. i agree with the rapporteur that the development of information technology is a sector which will create many jobs and boost the economies of the eu countries. investment in high-speed networks should be one of the priorities. it is important that the lithuanian presidency make a major step towards the above objectives.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in particular, the implementation mechanism of the digital agenda for europe measures and coordinated political leadership at both eu and national levels must be strengthened in order to achieve the digital single market. it should be noted that the digital internal market will not be able to function properly unless the differences between roaming and national tariffs are eliminated and an eu without roaming is created. we also need to create a business-friendly environment and accelerate public sector innovation and encourage private investment. it is essential to create a secure and reliable online environment for users and operators. everyone should have access to the internet and information. the integrity and security of the internet must be guaranteed to ensure safe access for all.
in writing. - the black statistics of the post-war violence in syria: 100,000 dead, 2 million refugees and 4.25 million internally displaced persons. the chemical attack on civilians in damascus, which claimed the lives of 1,400 people, including 400 children, is a violation of international law and a crime against humanity with no statute of limitations. the world was relieved when syria committed to hand over all its chemical weapons stockpiles for international control and destruction and to join the chemical weapons convention. however, the violence in syria continues and the international community, in particular the united nations security council, remains challenged to bring an end to the violence and to initiate a political process. russia and china, which bear responsibility for the inefficiency of the international community, must begin to engage constructively in the search for a solution. at the same time, those responsible for the use of chemical weapons in syria must be held accountable.
in writing. − i support the amendment of this regulation, as it is necessary to prevent abuse of the community visa system. this draft amendment establishes a more effective reciprocity mechanism for the application of visa-free regime and a mechanism for the suspension of visa-free regime on a case-by-case basis. the implementation of these mechanisms will ensure an effective common visa policy of the european union, which will create conditions for the uniform application of visa rights. the new legal framework benefits not only the eu but also individual eu member states, especially in cases where third countries do not properly implement the reciprocity mechanism. it should be noted that the provisions of the new regulation will prevent such possible situations from arising in the future if a third country unjustifiably applies a visa-free regime to a member state of the european union.
in writing. - the situation in egypt remains a matter of grave concern. the aspirations of the people who participated in the arab spring - economic prosperity and democratization - are being eroded by the failure to seek solutions through the political process, without renouncing violence and confrontation, without seeking consensus and reconciliation at both the social and political levels. the instability, the economic problems, the violence, it's not just the state of egypt that's being affected, it's the entire region. it is necessary to return power to democratically elected civilian authorities, ensure inclusion in all elections and political processes, refrain from political persecution, ensure justice and protect the most vulnerable sections of society and religious groups from violence. europe is ready to contribute to the building of a democratic and prosperous egypt.
in writing. − egypt faces increasing economic difficulties, and hundreds of people continue to die in bloody clashes. in this context, it is essential that the hostile forces embark on a process of national reconciliation as soon as possible. the bloodshed in egypt must be stopped. the egyptian authorities should establish the responsibility for the disproportionate use of force and hold those responsible to account. political stability, sound economic policies, anti-corruption measures and international support are needed to restore economic prosperity. the eu should therefore use all available political instruments to promote democratic and economic reform in egypt in view of the situation there.
in writing. − the eu's intensity of cooperation with neighbouring countries is based on the principle of 'more for more'. belarus has been included in the european eastern partnership programme from the outset, but it is not making full use of its opportunities because of the authoritarianism and political repression of the authorities. it is a country where the death penalty is still in place, political prisoners are in prison, freedom of speech, thought and assembly are prohibited, and there are virtually no activities that are not controlled by the government. nevertheless, in this report, the european parliament proposes to open a window of opportunity for belarus once again in the run-up to the vilnius summit. it is up to the belarusian leadership, with clear conditions, to seize this opportunity. i also believe that, despite the ep's recommendation to grant eu diplomats and politicians unlimited access to and travel within belarus, such travel and contacts should be coordinated with the eeas and the diplomatic services of the countries concerned in order to ensure consistency and coherence in the eu's policy towards belarus. i also believe that the eu should continue to contribute to the support of the european university for the humanities in exile.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution as it represents a major step towards normalising eu-belarus relations and resuming a comprehensive bilateral political dialogue. i believe that belarus' participation in the eu's eastern partnership is a positive sign, showing that the country is not going to turn its back on europe. it is very important that belarus continues to participate in eu initiatives and to make efforts to develop bilateral cooperation. it should be noted that the poor border crossing between lithuania and belarus is becoming a barrier to trade growth and is creating problems for the movement of people across the border. in this context, it is essential that the eu institutions take urgent action to implement a fundamental change at the border. a realistic action plan shall be provided to improve the border's permeability and to maintain flows through the transit corridor in the region.
in writing. − i have supported the proposal as it seeks to safeguard and protect the interests of unaccompanied minors, both asylum seekers and non- asylum seekers. the reasons for the arrival of unaccompanied minors are varied: war, violence, violations of fundamental rights, the desire to be reunited with family members, natural disasters, poverty, illicit trafficking, exploitation, etc. these minors are particularly vulnerable and it is therefore necessary to ensure that their fundamental rights are respected. the conditions for the reception of these minors often differ in some member states. it is necessary to include unaccompanied minors in development cooperation policies, thereby contributing to the creation of a safe environment for children. it is necessary to further develop the preventive dimension of eu policy towards unaccompanied minors, with a greater focus on poverty eradication efforts, health and labour policy, human rights and democratisation issues, as well as post-conflict reconstruction. the best interests of the child shall be a priority when dealing with unaccompanied minors. in order to ensure harmonised and uniform standards of protection for unaccompanied minors throughout the eu, member states are encouraged to provide equal protection for unaccompanied minors, whatever their status, under the same conditions as for children residing in the host country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu and the member states should cooperate more actively with third countries of origin and transit in addressing the issue of respect for the fundamental rights of unaccompanied minors. the eu is also committed to the development of a common approach to the problem of trafficking in human beings, in particular children, and to the prevention of illegal migration. member states should establish arrangements for the appointment of a temporary guardian and a representative throughout the procedures for the return of unaccompanied minors to their family or country of origin, in particular taking into account the risks posed to unaccompanied minors girls.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. unaccompanied minors, whatever their status, should enjoy the same protection and interests across the eu as children in the host country. in order to develop an effective eu policy on the prevention of unaccompanied minors, particular attention should be paid to the implementation of the principle of the protection of the best interests of the child. in addition, the issue of child protection and unaccompanied minors should be integrated into development cooperation policies. it is essential that cooperation between countries of origin, transit and destination is regularly improved and adequate funding is allocated. i believe that there should be national contact points in each member state responsible for coordinating the implementation of the national strategy on unaccompanied minors, and that there should be mandatory training on a regular basis for those working with unaccompanied minors from abroad.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because, in a time of global economic crisis, when our sense of european belonging is being adversely affected, it is vital to support the cultural and creative sectors, which are contributing and will continue to contribute to european growth and job creation for many years to come. the creative and cultural sectors should be used as engines of economic and social development and should contribute to sustainable development with a beneficial social and economic impact. the cultural and creative sectors clearly contribute to growth and job creation. creative people, products and services, as part of the eu's cultural diversity, should be a strong foundation for the european single market and well-developed regions as well as local economies, so that they can contribute to new economic activities and the creation of new jobs. member states should put in place appropriate social and fiscal measures to support the creative economy and new business models for the cultural and creative industries adapted to the european market, facilitating the mobility of artists and cultural and creative workers and helping them to overcome obstacles related to different tax or social systems and language barriers, and to promote greater cross-border and cross-cultural understanding.
in writing. − the cultural and creative sectors are closely linked to many economic sectors, promote the diffusion of innovation, contribute to social cohesion, creativity, cultural and linguistic diversity in the eu, public welfare, social integration and the development of tourism. it is a space for social development, bringing benefits that are not always measurable but are nevertheless indisputable, both for the social development of society and for economic development, and, above all, contributing to the development of a responsible and creative european citizen. i therefore support the focus on strengthening the cultural and creative sectors at eu level. i believe that the sector must be supported by both specialised eu programmes and eu structural funds, and that workers and professionals in the sector must be given the attention they deserve, with appropriate social status, working conditions and protection.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the cultural and creative sectors create value and jobs that typically contribute to the creation of social value and help shape europe's digital future. it is worth noting that support for the cultural and creative sectors can achieve substantial economic growth and job creation. in this context, it is essential that a comprehensive survey of the cultural and creative sectors in the eu is carried out in order to highlight the overall contribution of the cultural and creative sectors to the european economy, in particular as regards direct and indirect jobs and economic well-being. europe is culturally unique. it is therefore essential that the visibility and importance of the cultural and creative sectors be recognised by the eu and the member states. in addition, better access to culture and better cultural education should be provided from an early age.
i'm one of those people who smoked for 20 years and stopped smoking 19 years ago, so i can say that smoking every day, little by little, is very bad for your health. a few years ago, there was a very big debate in my country about banning smoking in public places, including cafes and restaurants. today, a few years later, the greatest joy is not only for those who did not smoke, but especially for those who did, because at parties, especially among young people, there were significantly fewer cigarettes smoked. (the president cut off the speaker) i shall therefore not go into the details of this directive, but i shall say that it is a balanced solution between the producers (since many people actually work in this sector) and the health problem. if we are to put health first, then i think this directive must be adopted. i congratulate lithuania, i congratulate ... (the chairman interrupted the speaker.)
lithuania has already established in its legislation the necessity of environmental impact assessment for the exploration and extraction of shale gas and i therefore welcome the intention to ensure fair and equal conditions of operation throughout the community and the strict implementation of the requirements of the european union safety and environmental legislation. i think those requirements should be even stricter. the environmental impact assessment and its optional nature should not be dependent on the planned gas production, but must be mandatory in all cases. the extraction of shale gas is only possible if the environment and the people living in it are absolutely safe and the impact of the production on ecological processes is minimal. and above all, we must ensure that environmental impact assessments are carried out by independent bodies, are objective, impartial and not bought-in.
in particular, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the really difficult work to systematise and update one of the main pieces of european union environmental legislation. in general, environmental impact assessment is probably more about the assessment process itself. the transparency and independence of the environmental impact assessment process is frequently the subject of comments or complaints. under the current arrangements, the contractor, i.e. the interested party, is responsible for both the selection and the remuneration of the professionals and experts involved in the environmental impact assessment. naturally, such experts have no interest in providing reports which are of no use to the client. i also suggested during the committee's deliberations that the experts involved in the evaluation should be selected from among qualified and independent professionals and paid independently of the evaluation client. although this approach was somewhat relaxed in the committee and in the negotiations between the political groups, i am pleased that the first step towards independence of the environmental impact assessment process has been taken. the second point which is being discussed today is the inclusion of shale gas extraction in the scope of the directive. shale gas is a natural resource that can ensure energy independence, including for my country, lithuania, but i still think that environmental impact assessment should be applied to shale gas extraction.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states and ukraine on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss). ukraine has a significant practical experience in technology, which is important in the areas of satellite navigation equipment and regional technology. ukraine has contributed to the european gnss projects and to the galileo precursor regional egnos system trials. this agreement will facilitate the extension of egnos to ukraine and cooperation in the fields of standardisation, certification, radio spectrum, industrial cooperation and trade and market development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it gives the european parliament its consent to the necessary technical amendments to the eu-ukraine cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the agreement between the eu and ukraine on a civil global navigation satellite system was signed on 1 december 2005. ukraine is one of the eight countries with a significant amount of practical experience in technology, which is important in the areas of satellite navigation equipment, applications and regional technology. the ukrainian space industry is one of the world leaders in the design and manufacture of launchers and of key components for global navigation satellite systems (gnss). the 2005 agreement provided for the extension of egnos (the precursor to gnss) to ukraine and cooperation in the fields of standardisation, certification, radio spectrum, industrial cooperation and trade and market development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the conclusion of the council decision on the draft cooperation agreement between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and ukraine, of the other part, on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement. i believe that long-term cooperation between the two countries should be encouraged and strengthened on the basis of reciprocity and effective cooperation. the commission has also received comments from the ukrainian authorities. it is a key partner of the eu in this area, as well as in research and training and industrial cooperation. it is noted that the provisions of the agreement will provide for equal opportunities for participation in the programmes and ensure the proper implementation of the various parts of the european satellite navigation programmes. the two sides will be able to cooperate more effectively in the areas of standardisation, certification, radio spectrum, industrial cooperation and trade and market development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the mobilisation of the egf for the needs of italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in the world trade system brought about by globalisation. the proposal aims to mobilise eur 1 164 930 for 529 redundancies in the italian information and communication technology sector. since 2009, the sector has been experiencing a significant slowdown due to the decreased demand for ict during the crisis. eu support will be financed through measures to reintegrate workers into the labour market, skills identification and vocational guidance, exploration of job opportunities in other companies, counselling of self-employed people and support during vocational training, etc.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support for workers who have suffered damage as a result of major structural changes in the world trading system. italy submitted an application egf/2011/025 it/lombardia for a financial contribution from the egf, following the redundancies in the region of lombardy during the period from 20 march 2011 to 20 december 2011, amounting to 529 workers, of which 480 workers were to be made redundant under the measures co-financed by the egf. i agree that it must be ensured that the egf supports the reintegration of individual redundant workers with a view to providing them with stable employment, thus ensuring sustainable and long-term employment.
in writing. − i think it is very important to provide direct support to people who have lost their jobs through no fault of their own. it is therefore essential that italy's request be granted and that sufficient funding be provided from the european globalisation adjustment fund. it is important to note that only with the help of this fund can we mitigate the effects of globalisation and help overcome the economic and social difficulties in the region. the decline in demand and investment in the ict sector in italy has led to the closure of two large companies and the redundancy of hundreds of employees. following the successful application of italy, 480 workers will be granted emergency assistance. this will facilitate their living conditions and reduce the social impact of redundancies. it is essential that the aid granted is used strictly for the purpose of supporting the reintegration of specific displaced workers into the labour market and not for the restructuring of companies or sectors.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the mobilisation of the egf for the needs of italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in the world trade system brought about by globalisation. the proposal aims to mobilise eur 2 594 672 for the redundancies of 1 030 workers in the italian automotive sector. in 2010, chinese car production increased by 33,8%, while european production increased by only 8,3%. these figures show that the eu car production is growing much more slowly than its main competitors, and that the eu market share in this sector is decreasing. eu support will be financed through measures to reintegrate workers into the labour market, skills identification and vocational guidance, exploration of job opportunities in other companies, counselling of self-employed people and support during vocational training, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional assistance to workers who have suffered damage as a result of major structural changes in the world trading system. the eu's car production is growing much more slowly than that of its main competitors, and the eu's market share in this sector is declining. the italian car manufacturer de tomaso automobili s.p.a. made redundancies of 1 030 employees, which were caused by changes in geographical consumption patterns, in particular the rapidly growing asian markets where the union producers' ability to exploit opportunities is lower, as their positions in those markets are generally weaker than elsewhere, as well as the tightening of credit conditions in response to the economic and financial crisis, which further complicated the company's difficulties and its inability to find a profitable solution, leading to the initiation of its liquidation procedure in april 2012. this co-financed package of tailor-made services includes measures to reintegrate 1 010 workers into the labour market, such as vocational guidance, assistance in finding employment in the same sector and in finding work, training, retraining and vocational training, support for the setting-up of businesses, support for business start-up, recruitment allowances, job search allowances and allowances for special expenses.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund plays an important role in reintegrating displaced workers into the labour market and ensuring long-term employment. in the light of the above, i consider that this application by italy should be granted and the amount of aid requested should be granted. the low growth and general difficulties in the automotive sector, as well as the tightening of credit conditions during the economic and financial crisis, have put the company in even more difficulty and led to a large number of redundancies. it should be noted that the financial support will be supplemented by direct aid for the 1010 redundant workers. they will be given the opportunity to re-enter the labour market and thus eliminate the negative effects of redundancies in the region. on the other hand, it is essential to ensure that financial assistance for redundant workers is dynamic and provided as quickly and efficiently as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because corruption and other human rights violations are usually linked to abuse of power, lack of accountability and various forms of discrimination within institutions. it is noted that corruption rates are higher where human rights are not adequately or fully guaranteed. according to the world bank, the scale of corruption is enormous, amounting to 5 percent of the world's gdp (about $2.6 trillion), with more than $1 trillion paid in bribes each year. the phenomenon of corruption is accompanied by a number of negative consequences, including a decrease in the state's ability to make the best use of available resources, an increase in the need for investment in the country's economy, and so on. it is also important to note that corruption is a threat to democracy and human rights and remains a major cause and catalyst of conflict in developing countries. the issue of corruption is particularly acute in developing countries, as it hinders foreign direct investment, job creation and modernisation, and investors avoid investing in those countries, thus preventing further constructive cooperation with external actors. i agree with the rapporteur that the eu can only become a credible and influential leader in the fight against corruption by tackling organised crime, corruption and money laundering properly on its territory. i would also note that in order to prevent the spread of corruption, it is necessary to invest in education, especially for young people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. according to the world bank, corruption accounts for 5 percent of global gdp ($2.6 trillion), with more than $1 trillion paid in bribes each year. the alleged corruption of high-level officials is responsible for the theft and offshore concealment of us$20-40 billion from developing countries' public budgets each year, representing 20-40% of official development assistance. the number of investigations carried out annually by the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is also a major indicator of the problems in this area: 25% of all investigations initiated by olaf concerned european external assistance to third countries, and eur 17.5 million was recovered as a result of these investigations. the eu allocates large amounts of funds to developing countries and there is a need for an appropriate accountability framework for the use of these funds. i believe that olaf's role as the eu's main anti-fraud agency should be strengthened to allow much greater focus on the use of eu development funds. the commission should present an eu anti-corruption plan and development aid programmes to apply the principle of compliance with international standards in the field of corruption and to include anti-corruption provisions in public procurement contracts.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it reiterates parliament's call on the european union's public authorities and businesses to pursue a consistent policy towards business and public authorities in third countries, by not tolerating corruption in the public or private sectors of third countries. the report highlights that corruption creates and increases inequalities, injustices and discrimination in the enjoyment of human rights, whether civil, political and economic, or social and cultural, and that corruption can undermine the economic development of states, sometimes by hindering trade and investment. in particular, it underlines that corruption undermines economic development in third countries and therefore this report calls on the european union and its member states not only to fight corruption in principle in their diplomatic relations but also to actively pursue the principle of corporate social responsibility in their commercial relations with third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as corruption in the public and private sectors undermines democracy, governance and the rule of law, weakens state institutions and therefore reduces the ability of the government to fulfil its human rights obligations, in particular with regard to the economic and social rights of the most vulnerable and socially excluded. in addition to bribes paid to public officials, corruption includes the covert practice of tax evasion and avoidance that is harmful to the public interest. it is a global phenomenon that needs to be prevented, punished and eradicated, and i agree that the eu needs a common approach to tackling corruption both outside and within the union in order to limit the possibility of non-transparent access to eu development aid. it is necessary to ensure greater traceability and accountability in the use of eu funds for support and to establish a system for bringing legal proceedings against eu and foreign companies suspected of corruption in third countries.
in writing. − while we often talk about corruption at different levels of government, we should be proud that the eu is one of the world leaders in the fight against corruption. i therefore support the provisions that we must promote the fight against corruption, starting with public procurement and ensuring the transparent use of eu funds. we must also seek to extend these standards to developing countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the fight against corruption should be given more attention. it is essential that corruption in the public and private sectors be prevented by all possible means. corruption, especially in third countries, increases inequalities, injustices and discrimination and other negative impacts on human rights. it is vital that the eu takes the lead in this area and continues to set an example in the implementation of its development policy. corruption undermines the distribution of resources, undermines sustainable economic growth and undermines efforts to reduce poverty. in particular, it is necessary to support the efforts of third countries to fight corruption and to continuously promote change. corruption is a global phenomenon that must be prevented, punished and eradicated. it is therefore necessary to ensure transparency of aid flows and to limit the possibility of non-transparent access to eu development assistance. i think that there is a need for greater traceability and greater accountability in the use of eu money for support. in addition, political dialogue on governance issues must be promoted, the capacity of the institutions to fight corruption strengthened and an effective control and supervision system ensured.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because corruption has always been and is harmful not only to business but also to society as a whole. corruption in foreign countries hinders the european union from transferring its values, resulting in the loss of billions of eu structural assistance to foreign countries. the report rightly points out that the eu can only become a reliable partner for third countries in the fight against corruption if it demonstrates itself to be effective in combating this phenomenon in the eu countries. it is equally important to take action against corruption with foreign governments, helping to ensure transparency in accounting and strengthening the powers of the criminal justice system. i agree with the rapporteurs that the fight against corruption is needed in all sectors, especially the judiciary, as it is an important branch of the administration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. as early as 2010, the european parliament's initiative in the eu budget provided for the commission to implement a pilot project over two years to explore the possibility of establishing an 'interinstitutional framework to identify long-term trends in key policy issues to be addressed in the european union'. this system should be operational from 2014 and should become the main european strategy and policy analysis system. the introduction of this framework would enable the eu institutions to better prepare for and respond to challenges and to define coherent strategic proposals for the coming year. moreover, such a credible and recognised framework could serve as a framework for the preparation of the eu budget and for the establishment of annual and multiannual political priorities and for linking financial resources more directly to policy priorities, thus ensuring the consistency of eu policy action and its financing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is a parliament's assessment of the progress made so far in developing the european strategy and policy analysis system (espas), which brings together officials from the european commission, the european parliament, the council of the european union and (by invitation) the european external action service in order to develop a more comprehensive and regular tool for cooperation between officials from the various institutions and bodies responsible for shaping future policy. this is a pilot project which started in 2010 and is now entering the next stage of development. this project aims to jointly strengthen the overall administrative capacity of the union to identify and analyse the main trends and challenges, as well as the related policy alternatives, that may emerge in europe and the wider world in the coming decades, and to use these analyses to shape eu policy more effectively. the world, and with it the european union, is undergoing a period of rapid change and transformation, in particular in the areas of power, demography, climate, urbanisation and technology. the years ahead will be even more challenging and uncertain, and the multi-polarity, multi-level governance and many interacting actors in legislation and policy in a more globalised world will create new and more complex global circumstances. monitoring global trends will be a key aspect of europe's ability to prepare for and respond to the challenges of the future.
in writing. - i have agreed to this proposal because we are living in a time of rapid change. this is evident in the dynamics of power, demographic change, climate change, urbanization and technology. there is a growing need for policy-makers in all jurisdictions to do more to study and monitor the most important global trends. the establishment of a robust interinstitutional framework at administrative level to identify and highlight key trends that could influence the future policy situation would enable the eu institutions to better prepare for and respond to challenges and to define coherent strategic proposals for the coming year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. this interinstitutional framework will help to identify the main eu policy issues. it will play a key role in preparing the eu budget, setting annual and multiannual strategic priorities and financial resources. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. it should be noted that there are still wide disparities in the economic and social development of the regions, especially in the quality of public services. these regions are unable to make good use of the eu funds allocated to them, because of a lack of financial and human resources, as well as administrative support. it is therefore necessary to apply a multi-level management approach and to ensure modern administrative and management capacities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. on 12 december 2012, a new version of the brussels i regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters was signed. this new version does not cover certain aspects of the rules of jurisdiction applicable to labour law, although when the draft regulation was being considered many experts felt that clarifications were needed in this area. although labour law is a very sensitive area of law, it would be appropriate in the future to include in the scope of that regulation, in the light of the free movement of workers within the eu, certain areas of labour law which would help to improve the protection of workers in the eu, in particular as regards collective and individual employment contracts.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is an attempt by the european parliament to draw attention to the aspects of labour law which have not been dealt with so far in the harmonisation of eu legislation on jurisdiction and the recognition of judgments in civil matters. some judgments of the court of justice of the european union in the fields of private international law and labour law have raised concerns that european union rules may affect the rules that protect workers' rights in the member states. labour law is an area in which the european union has relatively little influence. the various member states ensure a balance between workers' rights, trade union activity and the freedom to engage in a variety of commercial activities. however, the rights and obligations of trade unions and similar organisations and the role they play in the law vary from one member state to another. collective actions legally protected by the constitutions of some member states may be illegal in other member states, for example, if specific procedures are not followed. it is also necessary to avoid situations where the courts deciding on a collective action would have to apply foreign law, thus inevitably reducing the quality of justice by reducing their knowledge of foreign rules on collective actions. in its report, parliament proposes to introduce a provision in eu law to confer jurisdiction on the courts of the member state in which the collective action is to be taken or has been taken to decide on disputes relating to this action.
in writing. − i have endorsed the agreement drawn up by the european community shipowners' associations (ecsa) and the european transport workers' federation (etf) on the adoption of directive 2009/13/ec and the social partners' agreement annexed thereto. i consider that it would be appropriate to adopt a directive of the european parliament and of the council on flag state enforcement in order to comply with council directive 2009/13/ec implementing the agreement concluded by the ecsa and the etf on the maritime labour convention, 2006, and amending directive 1999/63/ec, as the incorporation of the provisions of the convention into eu law will ensure a stricter enforcement regime in the european union, better reflect the specific requirements of the convention and avoid divergent interpretations by member states that could lead to unfair competition and social dumping.
in writing. − i support this report, which emphasises the important issues for workers' rights. although labour law issues are largely regulated by national legislation, it is clear that the increase in labour mobility is creating a variety of disputes that require a more systematic approach to their regulation. the regner report highlights those areas which need further clarification. in particular, it is a question of jurisdiction, in order to ensure greater predictability of the applicable law, while preserving the protection of the weaker party (the worker). secondly, it is proposed to regulate more precisely the issues relating to individual employment contracts. the implementation of these amendments would contribute to the better implementation of the free movement of workers and to the acceleration of dispute settlement procedures, better protection of workers' rights, greater legal consistency and the avoidance of double jeopardy where there is a difference between jurisdiction and applicable law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the protection of the weaker party must remain a priority in the review of the rules of jurisdiction applicable to recruitment. cooperation between the parties to the employment relationship should therefore be steadily developed on the basis of the social partnership. this will ensure and protect the rights of the worker as the economically and socially weaker party. it is essential that national legislation is not infringed in the internal market. the law must not only provide for the protection of the worker but also guarantee rights. in particular, the application of the jurisdiction of other member states must not infringe the rules of the member states relating to employment. the relationship between jurisdiction in labour disputes and the legal framework applicable to employment contracts must be established. i believe that the states should be given the right to decide disputes under their national labour law. it is therefore essential that the jurisdiction and the applicable law be of the same country.
in writing. − i fully support this report which asks for clarity on how employment laws should be applied between member states. there is a fear amongst some member states that national law could overrule european law. improvements need to be made so that national law does not challenge the internal market. currently, the different member states have their own balance between workers’ rights, trade unions, and the ability to do business differently. i support the rapporteur, who states that with cross-border situations, laws need to have a great level of predictability when it comes to jurisdiction. i voted in favour of this report, because it emphasises that at all times ‘european law should respect national traditions in the field’. the main goal is to create a working environment where the weaker party, typically employees, are not abused.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. this proposal for a directive is part of a broader package of eu legal measures adopted to ensure the implementation of several international labour organisation (ilo) conventions on maritime labour standards, adopted in geneva on 23 february 2006. the convention has now been ratified by 30 countries representing more than 59% of the world's fleet, and the necessary condition for its entry into force is therefore fulfilled: it must be ratified by 30 countries representing 33% of the world's fleet. the convention provides for the full rights and protection of more than 1.2 million seafarers worldwide. it covers such essential matters as minimum requirements for seafarers to work on board, conditions of employment, accommodation, rest, food and board, health protection, medical care, welfare and social protection and ensuring decent working and living conditions on board, as well as the procedures for implementing these provisions. the convention aims to create a level playing field in the global maritime sector by establishing common minimum standards for all ships flying the flag of any state and for seafarers. i agree that it is appropriate to incorporate the provisions of the convention in eu law in the fullest and most concrete way possible, in order to avoid divergent interpretations and different application of the rules by the member states, which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it expresses the european parliament's position as eu legislator on the need to incorporate more fully and concretely into eu law the aspects of flag state control defined by the 2006 convention on maritime labour (hereinafter referred to as the convention). the advantage of incorporating the provisions of the convention into eu law is that it will provide for a more stringent enforcement regime in the european union, and the provisions of eu legislation on flag state control should reflect much better the specific and explicit requirements of the convention, which aims to avoid divergent interpretations by member states that could lead to unfair competition and social dumping. parliament therefore proposes that the provisions of the convention be transposed as precisely as possible into this directive, in so far as they relate to the area of eu competence.
in writing. - i agree with the proposal. in order to create a level playing field in the global maritime sector, it is necessary to transpose the provisions of the convention into eu law as accurately as possible. this would ensure that common minimum standards and the same guarantees apply to all seafarers and to all ships flying the flag of any state. it should be noted that the incorporation of the provisions of the convention into eu law will ensure a stronger enforcement regime in the european union and reflect the specific requirements of the convention. this will ensure that the rules are interpreted in the same way in the member states and will prevent unfair competition and social dumping.
in writing. − i agree with the position adopted by the committee on public health (envi) on the regulation of tobacco products. tobacco-related diseases kill about 700 000 people in the eu every year. according to the world health organization, the number of young smokers in the eu is increasing. we are seeking to prevent the tobacco industry from attracting new consumers by introducing stricter rules on the marketing and consumption of tobacco. it is necessary to prevent tobacco manufacturers from influencing young people with products that are attractive in appearance and to ensure effective warnings on cigarette packs. i agree with the suggestions that consumers should not be misled by the use of descriptions such as 'light' or 'light' cigarettes to prohibit small packs of cigarettes. i am convinced that this proposal strikes a balance between the right of choice of eu consumers and the right to clear information on the negative effects of smoking.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amendments to the rules on the production and sale of tobacco, which aim to ban the use of flavouring additives such as mint or fruit, as well as small cigarette packs, and to increase the number of visual health warnings. the european parliament, for its part, did not support proposals to ban thin cigarettes, nor did it support proposals to treat e-cigarettes as medicines. the main objective of the new rules is to prevent tobacco companies from recruiting new consumers by offering deceptive products that are targeted primarily at young people. some of these products will disappear from the market, such as perfumes, perfumes or lipstick-like packages designed to attract girls. we'll also have larger visual warnings. i cannot disagree with science-based public health policy. the impact assessment study commissioned by the european commission and the scientific arguments it provides leave no doubt that the measures envisaged by the new directive will reduce the number of smokers, especially children and women, improve the health of citizens in the european union and reduce the costs of treating smoking-related diseases.
in writing. - today we finally confirmed parliament's position on the main issue discussed during this term. i fully support the need to take measures to reduce the number of smokers, as smoking is one of the main causes of death. i shall not go into the details of the ep's position on the specific measures. however, i regret to point out that my observations on the impact of this legislation on tobacco smuggling, on the preservation of jobs and on other economic factors which may play a particularly important role in lithuania were not taken into account during the consideration of the directive.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because the health of the eu population must be adequately protected. human life and health are more important than the narrow interests of the tobacco industry. the provisions of the directive that have entered into force will not only provide economic benefits but also provide opportunities to curb the tobacco epidemic. this will prevent the further spread of chronic non-communicable diseases. i believe that science-based public health policy measures should be applied in the eu. in view of this, i support a total ban on flavouring substances, including menthol, and flavoured cigarettes. the use of misleading product descriptions should also be avoided and the fight against illicit trade in tobacco products should be intensified. i agree with the suggestions that special attention should be paid to the control of electronic cigarettes. electronic cigarettes should be subject to the provisions governing the marketing of medicinal products and should only be sold as nicotine replacement products in pharmacies. i believe that the measures provided for in the new directive will reduce the number of smokers, especially children and women, improve the health of citizens of the european union and reduce the costs of treating smoking-related diseases.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a tobacco directive because i believe that we should not leave everything to the individual in this matter of such importance to the health and life of millions of people. the unbridled pursuit of profit at the expense of health is reprehensible. political leaders, medical professionals, the media, and the public should all play a role in reducing the temptation for young people to start smoking. i am glad that the european parliament has finally spoken and has given its consent to a somewhat watered-down proposal for a directive. this will allow trialogue negotiations to begin in the near future and, hopefully, to agree on a final text during lithuania's presidency of the council of the eu. the proposal for a tobacco directive contains impressive figures: 700 000 people die every year in the european union from smoking-related diseases, 70% of smokers start smoking before the age of 18 and 29% of young people in the eu (15-25 years) smoke. i think the commission's proposal is timely. unfortunately, the european union has lagged behind other regions of the world in tobacco control measures in recent times. i think that's why the number of young smokers in the united states and canada has been declining over the last decade and is now twice as low as in the eu. i hope that the situation in the eu will also change after the directive is adopted and that it will be much more difficult for the tobacco industry giants to recruit young people to the ranks of potential killers.
in writing. − the eu-mauritania fisheries partnership agreement is the largest eu fisheries agreement in terms of both the variety and quantity of fishing opportunities available, the eu's financial contribution and the number of fishing member states. i voted in favour of this resolution because, in order to maintain relations with mauritania, the european union must help the country to ensure its economic and social development in order to create the right conditions for encouraging foreign investment. the eu must also provide sectoral support to enable mauritania to manage its fishing activities in a sustainable manner and to combat illegal fishing, in accordance with the principles of good governance and the rules of international law of the sea. i believe that this fisheries protocol will not only encourage a more sustainable use of fisheries resources, but will also ensure better protection for the local community, since it will have to be transferred a part of the catch, and will create more jobs for mauritian fishermen. we know that in exchange for €70 million a year in aid to mauritania, eu vessels are allowed to fish in mauritania's waters. it is important to emphasise that the lithuanian long-distance fishing fleet has been fishing in the waters of the exclusive economic zone of the islamic republic of mauritania for many years. the mauritanian economic zone is one of the most important long-distance fishing areas for lithuanian vessels, accounting for 54% of all catches by lithuanian vessels in the long-distance fishing areas (i.e. outside the baltic sea) since 2002. so we really need this protocol.
in writing. − i did not support the conclusion of an eu fisheries protocol with mauritania, as the current provisional agreement is not favourable to the eu fleet. fisheries partnership agreements with any country are commercial in nature and aim to enable the eu fleet to supply the community market and to ensure non-discriminatory fishing conditions. the protocol contains many outstanding issues, such as the unfair allocation of surplus quotas, the prohibition of fishing for cephalopod, the reduction of fishing areas, the significant increase in the financial contribution, etc. since the right to fish in mauritania is of vital importance to the eu fleet, this issue must be addressed as quickly and effectively as possible. i agree that the fishing conditions should be reviewed in the event of non-ratification of the protocol by the european parliament.
in writing. − the eu fisheries agreement with mauritania covers the period 2013-2014 and is the most comprehensive agreement of its kind. under its protocol, approved by the ep, eu vessels are allowed to fish in mauritania's waters in return for eu support of €70 million per year. this is the case for vessels from seven eu countries, with the majority of licences issued to spanish and french fishermen. lithuanian vessels also fish in mauritian waters. i voted against the protocol because it provides for more expensive fishing licences and reduced fishing quotas in mauritian waters and prohibits the catching of octopuses. the current fishing protocol expires in 2014 and we must prepare to negotiate a new protocol and secure better fishing conditions and quotas for the future.
in writing. - i agree to the minutes. currently, 63 fishing vessels flying the flags of 7 eu countries, including lithuania, are operating in mauritanian waters. the commission estimates that the fisheries under the new protocol will generate €200 million in revenue in the first months. however, failure to conclude an agreement would undoubtedly have a negative impact on fishing opportunities and the opening of a niche would be immediately taken up by competing third parties. it is important that the draft agreement balances the fishing needs of the eu fleet and the buffers for fish stocks. importantly, the eu's financial contribution will not only help develop the developing country's fisheries sector, but also address broader challenges such as tackling radicalisation.
in writing. - i am not opposed to the conclusion of this agreement. i think we should start negotiating a new agreement. the agreement is not beneficial to either party and its provisions will not only harm the interests of the european fishing industry but also lead to higher prices for fish for eu consumers. in particular, it lays down incorrect technical conditions and provides for insufficient fishing opportunities. the new technical fishing conditions, which are very difficult to implement, will make fishing in mauritania impossible. it should be noted that all fleets are subject to a reduction in fishing areas and catches. this will prevent vessels from fishing efficiently and force them to withdraw from this vital fishing zone for eu countries. moreover, the entry into force of this protocol would significantly increase the costs for shipowners and would make fishing in mauritanian waters in the economic zone loss-making.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the eu-mauritania fisheries agreement because i believe that the text agreed by the european commission reflects the interests of the majority of eu fishermen. i understand that the prohibition on fishing for cephalopod in mauritanian waters will have a negative impact on some eu fishermen. but we cannot force a sovereign country to open up its natural resources if it does not want to. the ban will affect spanish industry, but after the recent concessions by mauritania, even the spanish government is supporting the deal. in the meantime, it is vital for lithuanian companies that the european parliament approves the fishing protocol. the mauritanian waters are the only area where lithuanian fishermen fish for pelagic fish. the agreed protocol will benefit not only eu fishermen but also the mauritanian economy. eu funding will help one of africa's poorest countries modernise its economy and generate additional budget revenue. the agreement also contains strict environmental rules, allowing only sustainable fishing. the provisions of this agreement will also apply to third-country vessels fishing in mauritanian waters.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. gender genocide, or the deliberate killing of people of the same biological sex for cultural, social or economic reasons, remains a global problem in many parts of the world. this distorts the gender balance of the population, which has a direct impact on the economic and social development of a country and is contrary to the principles of human rights. i agree that concrete and more tangible action is needed in this area, in particular through the creation of an educational and public environment, the provision of specialised training and, in particular, the mainstreaming of gender genocide in the political dialogue agenda with relevant third countries and its inclusion as a key issue in the post-2015 development agenda.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is the european parliament's position on gender genocide. gender genocide is a gender-neutral term that refers to the intentional killing of people of the same gender because of their biological sex. according to recent estimates, the number of missing women worldwide has risen to some 200 million. this figure has remained remarkably stable, having reached 100 million in 1990. girls continue to be ruthlessly discriminated against through sex-determination, abortion, female infanticide, and murder. gender genocide is a global problem, not only in asia and europe, but also in north america, africa and latin america. disproportionate gender ratio is an unacceptable expression of gender-based discrimination against girls and women and a violation of human rights, and gender-based genocide will always remain a crime and a gross violation of human rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because gender genocide is a biologically gender-neutral concept, meaning the systematic, intentional and mass killing of people of a particular gender on the basis of social sex, and in some countries it is a growing problem, with poor information and deadly consequences. this report specifically examines the causes, current trends, consequences and ways of combating gender biased practices based on biological sex selection. this practice may also include the killing of infants and the coercion to choose the biological sex of the infant. despite recent legislation to combat the practice of selection on the basis of biological sex, girls are disproportionately often the target of severe discrimination on the grounds of sex. this discrimination often involves unborn babies and fetuses of predetermined female sex: abortions, abandonment of babies, or killing for no other reason. gender genocide is a global problem, of concern not only in asia and europe but also in north america, africa and latin america. gender genocide remains a crime and a grave violation of human rights and therefore it is necessary to find effective ways of addressing and eliminating the issues related to all its root causes, which are rooted in the culture of patriarchy. all states and governments have a duty to promote and protect human rights and to prevent discrimination. this is the basis for combating all forms of violence against women.
in writing. − the practice of gender genocide is often deeply rooted in cultures that favour the son, gender inequality, and persistently discriminate against and stereotype daughters. the document we voted on estimates that in 1990, the world population was 100 million fewer because of the genocide of the sexes, and that's the number of women who, demographically speaking, were missing. this is a gross violation of human rights and a serious crime that is widespread in third countries. the commission therefore fully supports calls for third countries to organise information campaigns to ensure equal opportunities for girls and women, to review education and training programmes, and to call on third country governments to prevent any possible gender-based genocide through legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because gender genocide is a crime and a grave violation of human rights. only by working together can we prevent the spread of this phenomenon. a carefully planned and coordinated policy is therefore essential. the problem must be tackled with greater determination, as the scale of gender genocide is tragic. we can't just close our eyes and hope that it's going to go away. the cases of genocide against women must be investigated and the perpetrators punished severely. it is also essential that victims are provided with adequate healthcare and long-term support.
in writing. gender genocide is a terrible human rights violation that we too rarely think about. few people know that this is a massive phenomenon on our planet. selective abortion, female infanticide, is seen on every continent on the planet, in dozens of countries. it is estimated that 200 million unborn and born girls are currently missing from the world because of gender-based violence. the reason is that there is a deep-rooted perception among some sections of society that male dominance is economically beneficial to society. i voted in favour of this report, which explains the determining trends in the causes of gender genocide, calls on the governments of the ec and the eu, and other international institutions, to collect reliable statistics on gender genocide, to expand the legal bases governing it, to abolish the possibility of choosing the sex of the baby in the case of fertilization, to provide social protection for women at risk of gender genocide violence, and to promote discussions on this subject in social networks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the global economic and financial crisis has undermined the social, economic and territorial cohesion of the eu, leading to increased unemployment, a decline in gdp, increased regional disparities and budget deficits at national, regional and local level. with the creditworthiness of national and regional governments deteriorating, banks and financial markets are increasingly refusing to lend. this has led to severe budgetary constraints in the member states in important areas and sectors, and is one of the main problems facing local and regional authorities in the current period. some member states, faced with the sovereign debt crisis, have decided to freeze or suspend financial support to local authorities for investment, which is having a negative impact on the economic and social recovery of the regions of those member states and of the country itself in general. i agree with the european parliament's position that priority must be given at eu level to the development of links between eu, member state and local and regional budgets, to further simplification of rules and increased flexibility and transparency in the programming and management of the structural funds, and to strengthening the capacity of regional and local authorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it draws attention to the clear trend towards increasing inequality in the eu's regions, where many of the new member states and southern european regions are relatively poor and most of the central and northern european regions are rich. in the report, parliament underlines the importance of cohesion policy as a key investment instrument, with a key role to play in tackling the crisis, reducing imbalances and putting the eu and its regions on a path to sustainable growth. the last few years have shown that cohesion policy is resilient to the crisis by combining its programmes and funding instruments, thereby providing greater flexibility and contributing to areas where investment is needed to modernise the economy and improve competitiveness. parliament is therefore concerned that the continuation of austerity measures and tight economic management since 2011 and 2012, which have increased pressure on and tightened national budgets, risks reducing the scope of local policies to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. stresses also the need to further strengthen the administrative capacity of regional and local authorities and to continue to work towards reducing the bureaucratic procedures that also have a negative impact on these institutions when they are performing their role as beneficiaries and limit their capacity to implement eu-funded projects;
in writing. - i voted in favour because the current crisis is putting a severe strain on the public finances of the member states. moreover, as the financial and economic crisis continues, subnational (regional and local) authorities are increasingly faced with the complex challenge of their ability to ensure profitable investment. on the one hand, they see their incomes fall sharply as central government cuts transfers and asks regional and local authorities to contribute to austerity policies, and on the other hand, the crisis has left them with increasingly demanding social services, which only adds to the pressure on their public finances. in this particular context, it is important to make concrete proposals to ensure the maximum possible flexibility in the financing of overall national eu development spending through the rigorous implementation of the stability and growth pact. this will be done by analysing the extent to which the current crisis has affected the capacity of subnational authorities to meet the growth and job creation targets set out in the europe 2020 strategy and by proposing ways to improve the financing capacity of these entities for viable investments. it is necessary to identify promising opportunities for national, regional and local authorities to invest in smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it is necessary to exploit the full flexibility offered by macroeconomic governance frameworks to invest appropriately, and in particular to rethink the link between the stability and growth pact and profitable public investment.
in writing. − this report regarding the effects of budgetary constraints for regional and local authorities on the eu’s structural funds expenditure in the member states calls for the europe 2020 goals and the financial crisis to be separated. i voted in favour, because the financial crisis should not detract from investing in future goals such as employment, innovation, sustainable development and the low-carbon economy. the report stresses the need to strengthen the capability of regional and local governments, and to reduce red tape to create more efficiency. another proposal is to increase cooperation between budgets at national and european levels so that the roles and responsibilities of each are clear and do not overlap. community-led local development for local strategies to create smart and sustainable job growth is, i believe, a vital part of european goals. i support the suggestion made in the report that these goals should not be included as part of the stability and growth pact, because the spending is focused on europe 2020 goals and increasing competitiveness, growth and job creation. future generations should be able to benefit fully from the completion of these goals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. a calm sea is of great value to the eu fleet and the eu fish processing industry in terms of fisheries, but there is no long-term fisheries strategy at eu level with the countries in the region. the region is still characterised by illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, which is detrimental to the sustainable exploitation of fish stocks. i support the call on the commission to develop a longer-term strategy on access for the eu fleet to the exclusive economic zones of the countries of the region and to define the access arrangements for the eu fleet, which will then have to be specified in bilateral fisheries cooperation agreements with the countries concerned.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as it seeks to recommend the development of a long-term fisheries strategy for the western and central pacific, taking into account the need to coordinate eu policies in order to enhance potential synergies, to ensure a leverage effect to maximise the positive impact for both pacific and eu countries, and to better inform the region about the european union. the focus is on the western and central pacific, which is characterised by a high level of fish stocks and illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, is made up of island states, the vast majority of which are also acp states, is subject to the new eu trade strategy based on the economic partnership agreements and receives a large amount of edf funding for regional development. the future fisheries strategy should also depend on the future of the cotonou agreement. most of the countries in the western and central pacific are island countries forming the acp group of countries. the fisheries strategy will have to be part of a new approach to eu relations with these countries, taking into account the necessary and possible changes to the cotonou agreement. most of the possible relationship schemes currently under discussion are in line with the regional approach. the eu's main objectives are to promote the social and economic development of the region through climate change adaptation and external trade policy, while promoting the sustainable use of fisheries resources through a transparent management system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because we are seeing increased competition in the mediterranean and black sea basins due to the decline in fish and marine resources. this creates regional tensions and increases the potential for maritime state disputes over maritime zones. we, the members of the european parliament, call on all maritime states to make greater efforts to phase out overfishing in the mediterranean and black seas, as the potential for conflict in this area will increase as fish stocks decline. moreover, the proper management of the mediterranean and black sea basins requires greater political cohesion and cooperation between the maritime states concerned. particular attention must be paid to bilateral cooperation and international agreements, as most countries in the black sea and mediterranean regions are not eu member states and therefore not subject to eu legislation. it is also important to underline the importance of resource assessments and to promote cooperation between scientific institutions operating in the territories of both basins, including the exchange of scientific data and information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. the mediterranean accounts for 30% of the world's marine traffic and about 75% of mediterranean fish stocks are overfished due to intensive and poorly regulated fisheries management systems. in addition, the management of marine and coastal zones remains complex and involves a variety of private and public institutions. the decline in fish and marine resources has increased competition. it is a source of regional tension and potential maritime-state disputes over maritime zones. i agree that more efforts are needed at regional, national and eu level to strengthen access regulation, to establish sustainable fisheries cooperation agreements with neighbouring countries to improve cooperation and joint management of resources. it is also necessary to encourage candidate countries preparing to join the eu to ratify and implement the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos) as an integral part of the eu maritime regulatory framework.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because it has increased competition for declining fish and marine resources, as it leads to regional tensions and possible disputes between maritime states over marine zones. more efforts are therefore needed at regional, national and eu levels to strengthen regulation of access to resources. all maritime states must make greater efforts to phase out overfishing practices in the mediterranean and black seas, as the potential for conflict in this area increases with the depletion of fish stocks. a stronger system of monitoring, control and surveillance of fishing activities is needed, in the context of a comprehensive approach aimed at enhancing the conservation of ecosystems in both basins and in compliance with eu and international law, in particular unclos, in order to contribute to the sustainable long-term use of fisheries resources and to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing more effectively.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. if you would answer. we all agree that fighting violence against women is a priority, but i have not really delved into this issue, but after hearing concerns from some member states about why the convention is not being ratified, the social definition of gender is being invoked. what would you say to those who are concerned about this nuance, that is, that certain wording appears in the text which may raise certain concerns for the member states?
in writing. the council of europe has welcomed the submission of the convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence (the istanbul convention). it is a very important piece of legislation, as it is the first european legal instrument to establish a comprehensive legislative framework for the protection of women against all forms of violence. it should also be noted that this convention does not only apply to women, i.e. the parties are also encouraged to apply this protection system to children, men and the elderly who are victims of domestic violence. i would therefore like to urge member states to ratify the istanbul convention as soon as possible, as combating all forms of violence against women and girls is one of the eu's priorities. i would also like to ask the council what measures could be taken to develop effective and consistent initiatives to support member states' efforts to eliminate violence against women. it may be possible to establish networks of national authorities and establish communication between them to ensure that progress is made in this area.
madam president, taiwan has a very robust economy with strong foundations, and european companies are involved in all major sectors of the taiwanese economy. besides investing in standalone operations, many firms have set up joint ventures with taiwanese companies. europeans have invested over usd 30 billion in taiwan, making europeans the largest group of foreign investors in taiwan, ahead of the united states and japan. most large and medium-sized european firms operating in taiwan also have operations in mainland china. many of these operations are regionally integrated to improve efficiencies. let me now turn to some of the political aspects of our discussion today. we all know how complicated taiwan’s international situation is. this certainly affects its trade relations. taiwan is a democratic and peaceful country and therefore it should be part of the increasingly globalised and interconnected world. a precondition for taiwan’s greater integration with the world economy is the ecfa, the economic cooperation framework agreement between china and taiwan. the very conclusion of ecfa demonstrates that china has de facto acknowledged taiwan’s role in world trade and taiwan’s importance for its own economic development. in conclusion, taiwan’s position in the global economy justifies a closer relationship with europe. the economic case for an eu-taiwan trade agreement is clear. in addition, the ecfa and the eu-korea and eu-singapore ftas mean that the timing is right for an eu-taiwan trade agreement. finally, both taiwan and the eu would benefit from a trade deal, not only as a result of increased two-way trade, but also as participants in the growing three-way trade between the eu, taiwan and china.
the question asked when the blue card is raised. the edf members believe that the eu institutions must take a very responsible view of the situation and take appropriate action to deal with it. the losses suffered by lithuanian carriers and food exporters are europe-wide losses and it is therefore necessary to find a way to communicate with the russian authorities. my question is: do you agree that today the eu must speak with one voice in defence of lithuania's interests as a member of the european union?
on behalf of the s&d group commissioner, i thank the commission for its position on russia's discriminatory actions against lithuania, which have been going on for some time, and i really urge that the necessary measures be taken immediately, because they are really not sufficient now, as lithuanian carriers are suffering huge losses due to the situation at the border. the ban on the export of milk products will affect thousands of producers and will probably have an impact on the rise in the price of milk products, with the result that our citizens in the european union will suffer. and all this is happening as lithuania holds the presidency of the council of the eu and prepares for the summit of the leaders of ukraine and the other eastern partnership countries in vilnius. we must therefore form a unified political response of the european union to russia's discriminatory actions against lithuania. i therefore urge you, commissioner, and the commission to work together to prevent such discriminatory policies from being used today and in the future, so that they do not become a precedent and such unacceptable measures are not applied to other countries. mr. president, i'm going to turn to you now. the meeting is attended by mr v. leškevičius, the lithuanian minister in the chair. it would be very helpful to hear his opinion. can we find time to give him a minute?
we are considering the gross and unjustified actions of russia against lithuania, an eu member state and an integral participant in the single market. russia, which became a full member of the world trade organization last summer, is not fulfilling its obligations as a wto member and is in serious violation of wto rules. since 11 september, discriminatory actions against lithuania by russian customs officials have continued. lithuanian carriers, eu exporters are suffering huge losses every day. the lithuanian government's official requests for answers and explanations from russia have not been received. instead, some russian officials have been using bold rhetoric in public, suggesting that lithuania should come to an understanding and reconsider its policies, otherwise lithuania will face a bleak future. russia is tightening its tone every week. this week we received threats that an embargo would be imposed on lithuanian dairy products, that detailed checks would be applied to meat and fish products. this is totally intolerable. commissioner, i thank you for your statement on russia's actions, which we heard at the end of september, but the pressure from russia is not going away, it is only increasing, and so our response must be adequate and firm. the russian ambassador must be summoned to brief the highest officials of the european union. it would be unprecedented, but the situation demands it. secondly, the european commission should ask the wto to take measures to bring russia under control and to make it abide by the rules, and we colleagues should consider asymmetrical measures such as the magnitsky list, etc. because today it is lithuania, tomorrow it will be another member state of the european union. we can't let that happen.
madam president, we should all be pleased that our union is becoming a real, more consolidated union which is progressing thanks to a unified european energy policy and our common neighbourhood policy in the east. a neighbourhood is supposed to be friendly and cooperative, and to avoid its elements simply being ‘beside’ each other – or still worse, presenting hostile ‘besidehood’. that hostile ‘besidehood’ stance as it is being openly taken by russia today results from anger that its former continental colonies are more and more linked to europe, not asia or a mirage of eurasia. in turn, that anger of the former mighty state is now aimed at one particular member state of the eu: lithuania. the politically-motivated attack of the kremlin is intended as revenge on our economy, while the destruction of states and communication challenges the union as a whole for a response. our debate here on trucks could more correctly be considered as being not about the lithuanian trucks at the lithuanian-russian border but about an abnormal situation at the eu-russian border. it is not about russia-lithuania trade relations but eu-russia trade relations. in the same way, losses in millions which lithuania is suffering for her european policies are european losses. lithuanian companies are european ones. a propos, it would be exactly right and effective politically if the eu were to share the economic losses of lithuania resulting from her active eastern neighbourhood policies. as usual the kremlin relies on its blows against single member states – continuously ignoring the very existence of the eu – presenting a false picture. allegedly our union continues to be split, not yet ready for consolidated responses. these times should pass in favour of a better future for europe.
i thank the commissioner, and i thank all my colleagues who are concerned about the lithuanian question and the european union question. we've been having russian problems for a month. russia has already banned milk and is also planning to ban meat and fish products. lithuania has not been officially informed of these measures or their reasons. the picture is made even more complex by other russian neighbours facing similar pressures, and by the ongoing negotiations with gazprom and the information attacks. let us also recall the case of the oil pipeline 'družba' in lithuania, which has been inactive since 2006 due to alleged technical circumstances. such measures are in serious breach of the principles of non-discrimination and proportionality, despite the fact that russia is a wto member. either the russian state institutions are engaged in arbitrariness, or russia is not complying with its international obligations at the highest level. we must be careful not to think that a relationship can be purely pragmatic. the russian federation is pursuing new agreements with the european union, but the latter examples raise questions about its readiness to fulfil its commitments. on that occasion, we invite you to a solidarity action tomorrow to taste lithuanian cheese the cheese that is banned today.
i also want to thank all the non-lithuanian representatives who have expressed solidarity in this hall today, but we need that solidarity in the practical solution of this problem. you yourself, commissioner, have mentioned that russia has, for reasons that are not clear, set standards that are scientifically unjustified. this means that it has long been possible to punish any country economically, as lithuania is punished today. i also want to remind you that when christmas comes, there is always a long line of trucks and our carriers in lithuania, usually in the other baltic states. it's not the first year, and it's not the first time. i therefore think that we really need to consider not only the measures you have proposed yourself, mr commissioner, but also to start considering a policy to protect the economic interests of our countries, with clearly defined mechanisms that would be automatically activated in such a case.
madam president, there is little doubt that what is happening now is an example of retaliatory action. russia is simply punishing lithuania for the eu’s eastern partnership policy. it is obvious that russia is exploring how far it can go in pressurising a neighbouring country. this is the second major attack against lithuania following the economic blockade of 1990. this time, however, due to historical circumstances, lithuania is a very different country. it is now an eu country. we have to appeal to the entire european union because we no longer stand alone. this is an attack on the eu and it is for that reason that i sincerely appreciate colleagues’ remarks about solidarity and the need to react as if it were the eu as a whole being attacked with blackmail on trade and other aggressive action. before the vilnius summit and before other important events in the eu we therefore have to be careful to ensure that this is not repeated.
madam president, the civil war in syria contains a new element not seen since saddam’s gas attack against his own people, a crime for which those found guilty were duly punished. this is not yet the case in syria as, although it has now been agreed that chemical weapons per se should be eliminated in one year, nothing about the elimination of killers is ever mentioned. so the terrorists’ impact on the population – as it may happen again – retains its effect. it contributes to the further flow of syrian refugees in all directions, including to europe. therefore the silence about the syrian crime against humanity, which is linked to impunity and the legitimisation of possible war criminals, only contributes to the continuous flow of refugees out of the country. not only humanitarian efforts should be organised on a community scale, but the international tribunal initiative as well.
in writing. mr president, the mutual recognition of professional qualifications in the european union has been a problem for some years, particularly for workers from new member states such as lithuania or slovakia. this is closely linked to human mobility and unemployment in europe. professional mobility is a key factor in increasing competitiveness and recruiting new workers in our countries, and therefore simple and clear rules for the acquisition of professional qualifications are needed, which are the same in all countries of the union. this will remove administrative obstacles to working in another country. support for the recognition of professional qualifications throughout europe is needed to ensure the free movement of professionals. such a document would be required for the recognition of professional qualifications in other countries of the european union without the need to take additional examinations, which is understood as discrimination against union citizens from different countries. the adaptation of such a solution would allow the full potential of labour mobility in the internal european labour market to be exploited. the system allowing the profession to be recognised as legal in the european union should undoubtedly be voluntary and should affect workers who wish to take up employment in a country other than their country of origin. the new system will simplify the process of standardisation and recognition of qualifications, which will benefit workers and employers and contribute to reducing unemployment. it will also affect the development of international services.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the european central bank on cooperation in the establishment of procedures relating to the joint supervisory mechanism. this interinstitutional agreement lays down the conditions for the exercise of democratic accountability and for the supervision of the tasks conferred on the european central bank. it is essential to ensure robust parliamentary oversight of the implementation of the eca's oversight tasks. i agree with the importance of having a regular exchange of views with the competent committee of the ep, through oral discussions in closed session at the bureau of that committee and by providing better access to information. i agree that the agreement must ensure full cooperation between the two institutions in the conduct of investigations and provide for parliamentary scrutiny of the selection procedure for the chair of the supervisory board.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it is another step towards the creation of a banking union in the eu by concluding an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the european central bank on the implementation of democratic accountability. the european council of 28 and 29 june 2012 called for the creation of a banking union between the euro area countries based on three pillars, namely a common banking supervisory framework, a european banking resolution fund (ebrf) in the event of a bank failure and a european deposit guarantee scheme. the european parliament stressed at the outset of the process that in order to create an effective single supervisory mechanism (ssm) entrusting the european central bank with the supervision of banks both in the euro area and in the member states wishing to participate in the ssm, it was necessary to increase the transparency and accountability of the supervisory authorities (i.e. the european central bank) to parliament, which must have full powers of inquiry and all powers relating to the appointment and budgetary procedures. for this reason, during the negotiations between parliament and the council on the proposal on the ssm, parliament called not only for the adoption of a regulation conferring specific tasks on the european central bank in relation to a prudential policy for the supervision of credit institutions, but also for the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between parliament and the ecb. this interinstitutional agreement lays down the practical arrangements for the exercise of democratic accountability and for the supervision of the performance of the tasks conferred on the ecb.
in writing. − i supported the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the european central bank on the implementation of democratic accountability and the practical arrangements for the supervision of the tasks conferred on the european central bank in the context of the implementation of the single supervisory mechanism, as the financial and economic crisis had revealed that the integrity of the single currency and the internal market could be threatened by the fragmentation of the financial sector. increasing the integration of banking supervision is therefore essential to strengthen the union, restore financial stability and help lay the foundations for economic recovery. the agreement provides for strong parliamentary oversight of the implementation of the oversight tasks through a regular exchange of views with the competent parliamentary committee, through oral discussions in closed session in the bureau of that committee and through improved access to information, including non-confidential parts of the minutes of the meetings of the supervisory board. the agreement also ensures full cooperation between the two institutions in the conduct of investigations. the draft interinstitutional agreement also provides for parliamentary scrutiny of the selection procedure for the chair of the supervisory board.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement. it should be noted that this agreement will establish the relationship between the european parliament and the ecb and ensure the proper implementation of the single supervisory mechanism. this document sets out the rules for cooperation between the two institutions and regulates the interinstitutional arrangements accordingly. the practical arrangements for the exercise of democratic accountability and the supervision of the ecb's tasks set out therein will ensure strict parliamentary oversight of the ecb's supervisory tasks. it is noted that the adoption of this agreement is an important step towards the accelerated implementation of the single supervisory mechanism.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the change in the number of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees and delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies and their members. following the accession of croatia to the eu, the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee should cease to exist. i agree with the changes in the number of members of all other delegations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it represents the technical and structural changes to the european parliament's organisation of its activities which are necessary following the accession of croatia to the european union. with the accession of croatia on 1 july this year, it was necessary to abolish the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee and to recalculate the number and distribution of members of all other parliamentary delegations.
in writing. − i supported the decision to rearrange the number of interparliamentary delegations, delegations to joint parliamentary committees and delegations to parliamentary cooperation committees and multilateral parliamentary assemblies and the number of their members, as the eu-croatia joint parliamentary committee is to cease its activities following the accession of croatia to the european union, and therefore the decision to change the number of members of the interparliamentary delegations.
in writing. − i voted against giving the council discharge in 2011. i take a negative view of the council's refusal to participate in the formal meetings of the committee on budgetary control relating to the council's discharge. furthermore, the council has not provided in writing all the documents necessary for the discharge, including the full internal audit for 2011 and the annual activity reports. financial transparency of the activities of the eu institutions is essential to maintain citizens' trust in the eu. i support the european parliament's call on the secretary-general of the council to provide as soon as possible detailed answers to the questions raised in the european parliament's report and to provide the relevant documents so that the committee on budgetary control can examine the implementation of the council's 2011 budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of not certifying to the secretary-general of the council that the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2011 has been implemented, as the difficulties arise from the council's lack of cooperation. the council continues to refuse to answer parliament's questions. the council is an institution of the union and should be democratically accountable to the citizens of the union as it draws on the general budget of the european union. the expenditure of the council must be scrutinised in the same way as that of the other institutions. the management by the council, as an institution of the union, of the financial year under review, in order to ensure respect for the prerogatives of parliament, and in particular democratic accountability to the citizens of the union, should be assessed. i believe that the budgets of the european council and the council should be separated in order to increase transparency in their financial management and to improve the accountability of both institutions. the court of auditors included in its annual report for the financial year 2011 observations on the procurement procedures of the european council and the council, but no further response has been provided to the court of auditors' recommendation on appropriate controls and better guidance on procurement procedures. the irish presidency has proposed the creation of an interinstitutional working group to negotiate possible decisions on the council's discharge, but no tangible results have been achieved. the lithuanian presidency of the council is expected to make a concrete proposal.
in writing. − i support the proposal not to approve the implementation of the budget of the european council and the council for the financial year 2011. in particular, as an eu institution, it draws on the general budget of the european union, which requires a close examination of its financial management and control of expenditure. it is noteworthy that the council still fails to ensure proper cooperation and to provide the european parliament with the necessary information in a timely manner and to respond to questions put to it. it is worth noting that by such behaviour the council does not ensure democratic accountability to its citizens. on the other hand, in order to increase transparency in financial management and accountability between the two institutions, i believe that the budgets of the governing council and the council should be separated. in this context, i support the proposal to set up an interinstitutional working group to negotiate possible decisions on the discharge of the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the renewal of the eia directive. the eia directive lays down criteria for the collection of information necessary for the authorisation of the development of the project concerned. the main aspect of the proposal is that new shale gas extraction projects would also be subject to a mandatory environmental impact assessment, i.e. the rules for shale gas extraction would be tightened. i agree that this impact assessment should be applied not only during the extraction process but also during the exploration process. the impact assessment during exploration should be carried out independently of the test method and during extraction independently of the amount extracted. the directive also proposes to include biodiversity, the use of natural resources, climate change, and the risk of natural and man-made disasters as factors to be taken into account in the environmental impact assessment of a project. it is also necessary to ensure that the environmental report is verified by environmental experts who are fully independent and have the appropriate technical competence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of allowing exploration and production of shale gas by hydraulic fracturing only after an environmental impact assessment has been carried out. it is necessary to strengthen public participation in environmental impact assessment and to establish clear rules to avoid conflicts of interest. we must conserve the soil, use natural resources, protect biodiversity. hydraulic fracturing is a concern. currently, environmental impact assessment is only required for projects producing at least 500 000 cubic metres of natural gas per day. such an assessment would henceforth be mandatory for all extraction of unconventional hydrocarbons, including shale gas, as well as for exploration by hydraulic fracturing. it is also proposed to provide for measures to provide the public with appropriate information and consultation before the projects are implemented. the new rules also provide for measures to avoid conflicts of interest. it is proposed that experts conducting impact studies should be competent, objective and independent.
in writing. − i am pleased that today we have finally adopted a position on the renewed eia directive. without going into the details of the new procedure, i would like to point out that the r & d process itself is now simpler and clearer for those involved. this is particularly true when citizens' rights to a safe and clean environment are properly respected.
in writing. − exploration and extraction of shale gas in europe is only possible with strong guarantees of safe extraction technology. we must be firmly convinced that this will not lead to a particularly large and painful ecological disaster. we have to have guarantees that the chemical will not contaminate the water and that there will be no seismic impact. i support the proposals put forward to better regulate the exploration and extraction of shale gas in europe. it is essential to ensure fair and equal conditions of operation throughout the eu and to ensure strict implementation of the requirements of eu legislation in this area. the obligation to carry out an environmental impact assessment should not depend on the amount of gas that is to be extracted. it must in any event be binding, objective, impartial and not bought. it should be noted that shale gas extraction is only possible if the absolute safety of the environment and the people living in it is ensured and the impact of the production on ecological processes is minimised.
in writing. − the current process for assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment is outdated. the original legislation needs to be modernised to include biodiversity and climate change and to bring the text into alignment with new directives adopted by the eu. around 200 types of projects fall within its scope, making the eia a big factor in the environmental assessment process. improving the directive by laying out clear criteria is important; experts must abide by it to avoid conflicts of interest between companies and investors. extraction and exploration of resources such as non-conventional hydrocarbons can be extremely harmful to natural sources of drinking water if done incorrectly. these processes too should be required to undergo eia. i voted in favour of this report because the new directive has the potential to provide the eu with a green economy and eu citizens with a better quality of life. the eia directive establishes the expectation of making informed decisions before granting development consent. the new eia directive will increase democratic participation in development, giving citizens the opportunity to express their own important opinions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal on pleasure and personal boats. the purpose of the proposal is to update the existing european union safety rules and environmental requirements for vessels designed for personal use, i.e. leisure, sport and training. the recreational and personal ships directive applies to recreational and personal ships designed for use at sea or on inland waterways, but does not apply to ships designed for the commercial carriage of passengers. i agree with the main aspects of the amendment of the directive: increased safety requirements, reduced noise and pollution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it expresses parliament's position on the updating of eu safety rules and environmental requirements for vessels designed for personal use, i.e. leisure, sport and training, including chartered, crewed or uncrewed. it is important to note that this directive will not apply to ships designed and used for the commercial carriage of passengers. the main essential requirements for the ships concerned relate to stability and buoyancy, engine and electrical safety, emissions and noise emissions. the main aspects of the proposal are the alignment of the rules with more harmonised standards, the maintenance of noise emission limits by providing for the possibility of national measures to impose stricter requirements in sensitive geographical areas in order to better protect the marine environment, the introduction of an obligation to install collection tanks or on-board water treatment systems on vessels with toilets, and the updating of the rules on emissions and noise emission.
in writing. − the recreational and personal boat directive, which repeals directive 94/25/ec, has been under discussion in the council for several years. directive 94/25/ec is still in force and has been transposed into national law in lithuania. at present, lithuania sometimes faces certain difficulties in interpreting the requirements for the ce marking of recreational craft and their components. the new directive defines these issues in much more detail and its adoption and transposition should facilitate decision-making on issues relating to the marking requirements for recreational craft. a compromise was reached during the irish presidency in the first half of 2013 on the draft directive to be adopted by the council. the negotiations were difficult (some discussions involved representatives of the lithuanian maritime safety administration during the first half of 2013), but a major breakthrough was reached during the trialogue in may 2013, chaired by malcolm harbour. in view of the text of the directive, which i consider to have been drafted properly, and the difficult negotiations which have taken place, i consider that it was necessary to pursue the adoption of this directive. i therefore supported the proposals of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco).
in writing. − despite the title of this document, which is at first sight controversial, it is primarily concerned with the safety of people. in some parts of the eu, water transport is the only way to achieve a high-quality transport system. i therefore support the establishment of higher safety standards at eu level, thus ensuring greater safety for those travelling in these vehicles.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion. it should be noted that at present many member states are facing certain difficulties in interpreting the requirements for the ce marking of recreational craft and their components. the new directive defines these issues in much more detail and its adoption and transposition should facilitate decision-making on issues relating to the marking requirements for recreational craft. i believe that the text of the new directive adequately reflects the legitimate expectations and interests of all stakeholders. it also creates the conditions for increasing the competitiveness of the sector to match the most advanced market sectors worldwide.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because professional mobility is a crucial element of european competitiveness and employment. there are currently around 800 regulated professions in the eu, seven of which are covered by the automatic recognition system: doctors, dentists, pharmacists, nurses, midwives, veterinarians and architects. however, most professionals face the problem of not being recognised when they move to another eu country to live and work. in other words, there is a lack of simple and clear rules governing the recognition of professional qualifications. i believe that this is a major challenge to be overcome in order to make the most of the single market and put the idea of european citizenship into practice. i agree with the rapporteur that the creation of the european professional certificate and the electronic exchange of information between eu countries are a step towards greater mobility of professionals. doctors, pharmacists, architects and other regulated professions who have obtained a european professional certificate in their own country will find it easier to find employment in another eu country. it is also important to emphasise that the directive will also prevent the relocation of healthcare workers and childcare professionals whose activities have been suspended or restricted as a result of a disciplinary case or an indictment from their activities to another eu country.
in writing. − the eu has many challenges to face today. one of them is the increased demand for highly skilled workers in the eu. today's proposal on professional qualifications responds to the need for a smoothly functioning system of recognition of qualifications to ensure the mobility of professionals across europe. this would make it easier for highly qualified professionals to go where there are vacancies. and that will certainly be good for european economic growth. i am convinced that the idea of a european professional certificate-electronic certificate is the right solution, as it will help to simplify and speed up the procedures for the recognition of mobile professionals. the vocational qualifications directive is very important in enabling professionals to start a new business or find a job in another member state where a specific qualification is required for a specific occupation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because professional mobility is an extremely important element of competitiveness and employment in europe and an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy and the single market act. however, the mobility of professionals in the eu remains low, due to the lack of simple and clear rules governing the recognition of professional qualifications. the fundamental right of free movement is still not taken for granted and this legislative proposal should contribute to simplifying procedures for those wishing to work in another country, while maintaining a high level of quality and safety for consumers, patients, workers and all eu citizens and increasing trust between member states. simplification and trust can be ensured by continuously reviewing the common training requirements for the professions covered by the automatic recognition system and by increasing over time the number of professions covered by this system (currently only 7 out of 800 professions regulated in the eu).
in writing. − i voted in favour of making it easier for doctors, pharmacists, architects and other regulated professions who have obtained a european professional certificate in their own country to find employment in another eu country. meanwhile, those whose professional activities have been suspended or restricted as a result of a disciplinary case or an indictment will be prevented from being employed in other eu countries. the new system will be based on the european professional certificate and the electronic exchange of information between eu countries. previously, the host state administered the application to practise in another eu country, but the new rules transfer this responsibility to the specialist's home state, whose relevant authority will itself contact the host country if necessary. this will facilitate and accelerate the employment of specialists in another eu country. there are currently around 800 regulated professions in the eu, seven of which are covered by the automatic recognition system: doctors, dentists, pharmacists, nurses, midwives, veterinarians and architects. in order to increase the transparency of regulated professions, the new rules require the european commission to create a public database of representatives of regulated professions on the basis of information provided by the member states. before including new professions in this database, eu countries will have to justify that their decision to regulate individual professions is non-discriminatory and proportionate. the directive adopted by the european parliament will also prevent the relocation of healthcare workers and childcare professionals whose activities have been suspended or restricted as a result of a disciplinary case or an indictment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the vergnaud report, which focuses on the issue of mobility of professionals, which is of particular importance in the eu, as there is still a lot of controversy about the recognition of qualifications in different eu countries. in the absence of a uniform and clear system, the mobility of workers in some sectors is relatively low, which is detrimental to the provision of services to consumers. in this context, the aim is to simplify the procedures that professionals must comply with in order to provide services in other countries, and to ensure the quality of the services provided, it is proposed to introduce a provision on language fees. the purpose of the recast of the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications is to facilitate procedures for workers while ensuring reliability, quality and safety in this area. to this end, it is proposed to extend the use of the internal market information system and the european professional certificate. the implementation of these changes would contribute to the creation of a transparent and competitive eu labour market and would help to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of these amendments because the new legal regulation is a very important step both in reducing the administrative burden on businesses and in promoting the mobility of professionals between member states. it should be noted that the recognition of professional qualifications is one of the rights of eu citizens, one of the guarantors and components of the principle of free movement of persons. it is therefore essential that the regulatory scope of regulated professions and the rationale for such regulation be sufficiently transparent and objective. the introduction of the european professional certificate on a voluntary basis is welcome. the proper implementation of the provisions of this directive will ensure a high level of reliability of the information transmitted and mutual trust between member states. in addition, business will be encouraged to recruit highly qualified professionals from other eu member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu-armenia visa facilitation agreement. the simplified visa regime can give a new impetus to cooperation, to the mobility of citizens, which will become more intensive and smoother as a result of a more liberal visa regime. the new rules will make the procedures quicker (decision within 10 days, and in urgent cases within two days or less), cheaper (visa processing fee for armenian citizens is eur 35) and less bureaucratic (necessary documents to prove the purpose of travel will be simplified for certain categories of persons, in particular close relatives, members of official delegations, students, teachers, businessmen, scientists, etc.) and simplified criteria will also be applied to the issuance of multiple-entry visas. it should be emphasised that the conclusion of the visa liberalisation and readmission agreements is a very important step in the relations between armenia and the eu. more mobility will improve people-to-people relations, which is crucial for the development of economic, social, cultural and other links.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for an eu-armenia visa facilitation agreement. the european union has already concluded visa facilitation agreements with nine non-eu countries. i agree with the suggestions that the visa decision should be taken within 10 days, and in urgent cases within two days or sooner, from the date of registration of the application. the visa fee should be lower and less bureaucratic. i agree that the necessary documents to prove the purpose of the journey should be simplified for close relatives, members of official delegations, students, teachers, businessmen and scientists, etc. simplified criteria should also apply to the issuing of multiple-entry visas. i support calls for an agreement to facilitate the mobility of citizens. it is necessary to monitor the implementation of both agreements in order to ensure that the full benefits of the visa facilitation regime are realised. it is also important to continue negotiating the same arrangements with azerbaijan.
in writing. − on 19 december 2011, the council approved guidelines for negotiations with a view to concluding an agreement with armenia on visa facilitation. the negotiations were opened in yerevan on 27 february 2012 and the final text of the agreement was initialled on 18 october 2012. in accordance with the decision of the government of the republic of armenia of 4 october 2012, as of 10 january 2013 all citizens of the eu, as well as citizens of schengen associated countries, are exempted from the visa requirement. the eu has already concluded agreements on simplification of all regimes with nine non-eu countries. as regards the south caucasus countries, it should be noted that the agreement has so far been concluded with georgia, but that negotiations are already under way with azerbaijan. in the joint declaration on the eu-armenia mobility partnership of 27 october 2011, the parties to the agreement decided to establish a mobility partnership based on reciprocity with a view to better managing legal and labour migration, including exchange and temporary migration. i believe that after several rounds of negotiations, armenia is ready to conclude an agreement on the liberalization of the entire regime. i therefore voted in favour, as the visa facilitation regime can give a new impetus to cooperation, mainly the mobility of citizens, which will be facilitated by a more liberal visa regime. the new rules will make procedures faster, cheaper and less bureaucratic. the government of armenia has already abolished the visa requirement for eu citizens as of 10 january 2013.
in writing. − back in 2004, the european parliament expressed strong support for the inclusion of the south caucasus countries, including armenia, in the european neighbourhood policy (enp). the bilateral drive to conclude visa liberalisation and readmission agreements became an integral part of the eastern partnership of the ec in 2009. it is gratifying that today armenia is ready to conclude an agreement on visa liberalisation. while it is regrettable that armenia has recently lowered its ambitions on the path towards eu accession, visa facilitation will undoubtedly provide a boost to the development of human, cultural and economic relations between the eu and armenia. i am convinced that the process of rapprochement with the eu contributes to strengthening peace and stability, and i would therefore like to wish armenia to resist division and intimidation.
in writing. − i support the conclusion of this visa facilitation agreement. in view of the progress made by the country, i believe that armenia is already ready to conclude an agreement on visa liberalisation. this is a major step forward in developing a reciprocal partnership on mobility and in strengthening and expanding relations between the two. this is a gradual process to improve safety. it should be noted that the liberalized visa regime will facilitate the mobility of citizens. the new rules will also make procedures faster and less bureaucratic. on the other hand, we need to do more to take full advantage of the visa facilitation regime and to prevent cross-border crime and illegal migration.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for an agreement between the european union and armenia on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. the conclusion of the agreements on readmission and visa liberalisation is a very important step in the relations between armenia and the eu. the objective of the proposal is to establish rapid and effective procedures for the identification and safe and effective return of persons living without authorisation. this will prevent and control illegal migration flows. i agree with the rapporteur that armenia is ready to conclude this agreement, which will facilitate the mobility of citizens. it is necessary to monitor the implementation of both agreements in order to ensure that the full benefits of the visa facilitation regime are realised. it is also important to continue negotiating the same arrangements with azerbaijan.
in writing. - i have given my consent to the conclusion of the readmission agreement recently agreed. purpose to establish rapid and effective procedures for the identification and safe and effective return of persons, based on the principle of reciprocity. the decision to conclude the agreement shall include a set of standard elements to be included in readmission agreements concluded between the eu and third countries. readmission obligations shall be based on full reciprocity. they apply to nationals of the state concerned, to third-country nationals and to stateless persons, thus providing a basis for the establishment of a readmission obligation applicable to the latter two categories of nationals. the agreement lays down the procedures for the practical application of the agreement, including the establishment of a joint readmission committee, the definition of the conditions for the accelerated procedure and the articles on costs, data protection and the relationship with other international commitments. the agreement applies to the territories of armenia and the eu, with the exception of ireland, denmark and the united kingdom. the agreement applies in a manner that guarantees human rights and respects the obligations and responsibilities set out in the international instruments applicable to the parties concerned. armenia is a partner country in the eastern partnership, which is based on a commitment to the principles and fundamental values of international law, including respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and on 15 july 2010 negotiations were launched on a new and more comprehensive eu-armenia association agreement. in addition, the eu-armenia human rights dialogue was launched in december 2009 and has already been held in four rounds.
in writing. − i support the conclusion of this eu-armenia agreement on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. it should be noted that armenia is a partner country participating in the eastern partnership programme and ensuring adequate compliance with international commitments. the readmission agreement is a core element of the visa-free regime, based on the principles and fundamental values of international law. the provisions of the agreement will thus ensure adequate protection of the rights of individuals and will give priority to voluntary return over forced return. on the other hand, it is essential that both parties take responsibility for the management of flows from their respective countries. the principle of reciprocity should be the basis for the establishment of procedures for the rapid and effective identification and safe and effective return of persons.
in writing. − i believe that a regulation amending the regulation on the establishment of a list of certain authorised health claims made on foods other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk, to children's development and to health should not be adopted. first, it does not correspond to the purpose and content of the basic act. particular attention shall be paid to ensuring a high level of consumer protection and facilitating consumer choice. there must be an eu-wide imperative ban on the use of false, ambiguous or misleading claims about the nutritional and health characteristics of food.
in writing. − some health claims printed on foods tend to confuse consumers instead of educate them. this must be avoided because it makes claims irrelevant. health claims printed on food labels should be logical and serve a purpose. they need to be based on scientific research, providing the consumer with only beneficial, useful information. the information printed on labels should be used to positively influence diet choices. companies put false claims on their food labels in attempt to appeal to consumers and sell more of their product. this is unethical and contradicts the initial goal, which was to reduce the risk of disease by placing health claims on labels. the claims placed on labels should be carefully scrutinised to ensure that they serve a purpose and are factually supported by scientific research. the goal is not to place a ban on sugar products. products with high sugar content such as chocolate and soda already have nutrition labels on them, making the health claims unnecessary. i support the commission’s position to stop the use of health claims made on food labels. i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i do not support the draft regulation submitted by the commission. first, it does not comply with the spirit and purpose of the basic act. it is noted that at present a large number of animals, animal parts and organs are already declared unfit for human consumption, but the adoption of the proposed regulation would not allow for the verification of the parts and would only increase the number of parts not controlled. the working conditions and the functions of veterinarians will be reduced. they will thus be unable to carry out their duties honestly. potential threats to human health will go unnoticed, and meat unfit for human consumption will enter the food chain. on the other hand, the anomalies not detected will not meet the expectations of consumers regarding the quality of the meat. in addition, animal welfare rules will be violated. in the light of these circumstances, i consider that the proposed measures should be reconsidered. they must meet the legitimate expectations of consumers and ensure animal welfare conditions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the eu-china negotiations on a bilateral investment agreement. trade between the eu and china has expanded rapidly in recent decades, reaching a total trade volume of 433.8 billion in 2012. however, since 1997 the bilateral trade imbalance has been in china's favour. the new agreement aims to remove restrictions on investment in china and thus open up new opportunities for european union companies. it is very important to conclude an investment treaty at eu level, which would set common rules for all eu member states, which is not the case at present. today, certain bilateral agreements are more favourable than others, with some countries enjoying more advantages. moreover, bilateral agreements allow member states to compete with each other, which is not beneficial. the conclusion of a new eu-level agreement, together with new common rules, will encourage china to invest in the european union. eu companies investing in china are still not protected in terms of intellectual property rights, but this could change during the negotiation of the contract.
in writing. − china is the eu's largest trading partner in asia, with a daily import and export turnover of over eur 1 billion. last year, imports from china amounted to eur 289.7 billion, while exports amounted to eur 143.9 billion. i supported the eu-china investment agreement, which aims to facilitate access to the chinese market for european companies. the new agreement aims to remove restrictions on investment in china and thus open up new business opportunities. european companies regret the existence of numerous tariff and non-tariff barriers to entry into the chinese market, such as certain forms of discrimination against foreign operators, as well as the complex tariff structure and technical barriers to trade. the commission is invited to negotiate a broad-based and balanced eu-china investment agreement aimed at creating a better environment for eu investors in china and vice versa, including facilitated market access, with a view to increasing mutual capital flows and ensuring transparency in the management of both public and private companies investing in the partner economy. the agreement must promote sustainable, inclusive and environmentally friendly investments (in particular in the extractive industries) and quality working conditions in the invested enterprises.
in writing. − i welcome the intention of the treaty to remove barriers and protect investment between the eu and the dynamic china with which we are seeking to build a strategic partnership. this will be the first negotiation of an eu investment agreement since the eip became an exclusive union competence. indeed, the eu as a negotiator has many levers to gain from respecting eu standards and values. i therefore hope that the council will take due account of the ep's position on the environment, labour rights, intellectual property, transparency, investment dispute settlement and human rights implications when approving the negotiating mandate. i think that the negotiations should be as transparent as possible and not rushed, because in this case it is not the rush that should be the priority, but quality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the conclusion of a bilateral investment agreement between the eu and china. this agreement is a good example of successful eu-china cooperation, opening the way for eu investment in the chinese market and setting common rules for all eu countries. in particular, restrictions on investment in china will be removed and new opportunities for european companies to operate in the country will be created. however, it is essential to ensure in all cases adequate protection of investments, a level playing field and the prevention of unduly harmful hidden competition between member states. investments must not be made at the expense of the environment or working conditions. companies investing in china must be adequately protected in terms of intellectual property rights. therefore, cultural and audiovisual services should not be included in the market access negotiations. it is essential that the commission continue to carry out a comprehensive human rights impact assessment. it is also necessary to ensure that the investment agreement does not impede progress in the ratification and full implementation of international human rights treaties, international labour organisation conventions and multilateral environmental agreements between the two parties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the conclusion of a bilateral investment agreement between the eu and china. this agreement is a good example of successful eu-china cooperation, opening the way for eu investment in the chinese market and setting common rules for all eu countries. in particular, restrictions on investment in china will be removed and new opportunities for european companies to operate in the country will be created. however, it is essential to ensure adequate protection of investments in all cases, and a level playing field also prevents unduly harmful hidden competition between member states. investments must not be made at the expense of the environment or working conditions. companies investing in china must be adequately protected in terms of intellectual property rights. therefore, cultural and audiovisual services should not be included in the market access negotiations. it is essential that the commission continue to carry out a comprehensive human rights impact assessment. it is also necessary to ensure that the investment agreement does not impede progress in the ratification and full implementation of international human rights treaties, international labour organisation conventions and multilateral environmental agreements between the two parties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on eu-taiwan trade relations. the total bilateral trade between the eu and taiwan has increased more than twelvefold in recent decades, to exceed eur 40 billion in 2011. in 2010, taiwan accounted for 31,5% of all eu foreign direct investment and 21% of foreign direct investment, and the eu was the largest foreign investor in the country. despite relatively low tariffs, bilateral trade between the eu and taiwan is much lower than between the eu and other partners. i support the eu-taiwan agreement on investment protection and market access, which would help strengthen the current economic relationship. the agreement should include a strong commitment by the parties to sustainable and inclusive development in the economic, social and environmental aspects of investment. investment agreements should take into account social aspects, environmental standards, human rights, safety, workers' and consumers' rights, public health and cultural diversity. it is therefore necessary to include in the agreement reservations relating to those aspects.
in writing. − the total volume of bilateral trade between the eu and taiwan has increased more than twelvefold over the past two decades, to exceed eur 40 billion in 2011. taiwan is the eu's seventh largest trading partner in asia and the eu's 23rd largest trading partner worldwide. the eu is the largest foreign investor in the country. i agreed that as the eu makes efforts to improve its economic relations with china, it should also consider improving economic relations with taiwan in order to continue to consistently support taiwan's democratic system, social pluralism and progress in respect of human rights and the rule of law. i welcome taiwan's willingness to enter into negotiations at the same time on bilateral investment protection and market access agreements, which aim to further enhance legal certainty for investment and increase the volume and quality of investment flows. the commission therefore concluded that the measures in force were in line with the wto case-law. the agreement should include a strong commitment by the parties to sustainable and inclusive development in the economic, social and environmental aspects of investment. both sides should protect strategic national interests by providing for the possibility of exempting certain sectors from liberalisation obligations when considering market access.
in writing. − in this resolution, the european parliament called on the commission to strengthen trade relations between the eu and taiwan by opening negotiations on mutual investment protection and market access. the eu-taiwan bilateral trade has grown steadily over the past two decades, more than doubling in size. in 2011, the eu-taiwan trade volume exceeded eur 40 billion. the eu is also the largest foreign investor in the country. the conclusion of such agreements would therefore help to exploit the full potential of economic relations. taiwan, despite its complicated political relations with china, is a member of the asia-pacific economic cooperation forum together with china and has been a full member of the world trade organization (wto) since 2002.
in writing. − i believe that bilateral investment protection and market access agreements will not only help to strengthen legal certainty for investment, but also increase the volume and quality of investment flows. it is noted that taiwan is one of the largest suppliers in the global market, offering high-tech innovation, high-quality goods and services. therefore, in order to strengthen the eu's bilateral relations with taiwan, the commission should immediately enter into negotiations on such eu-taiwan agreements. these negotiations must be based not only on economic considerations but should also take into account the state of play of taiwan's democratic system, social pluralism and respect for human rights and the rule of law. it should be noted that in order to protect strategic national interests, certain sectors should be exempted from liberalisation obligations.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. according to the united nations, the number of syrian refugees will soon reach 3.5 million. the resolution proposes that the eu hold a humanitarian conference to help syria's neighbours take in more refugees from the country. this humanitarian conference would help host countries of syrian refugees (lebanon, jordan, turkey and iraq) to ensure an open door policy. at the same time, it is necessary to strengthen the eu's diplomatic role in the syrian conflict. i support calls for the eu to continue to provide adequate financial assistance to the syrian people, including refugees. i agree that syrian citizens should not be returned to this country at this time, and it is important to stress the obligation of eu countries to help migrants arriving in the eu by sea.
in writing. the ep has returned to the syrian issue, this time over the flow of refugees from the conflict-torn country. the number of refugees in neighbouring countries is estimated at over two million, and the number of internally displaced persons currently stands at 4.25 million. the most affected are neighbouring turkey, lebanon, jordan, iraq, egypt, morocco, algeria and libya. however, the eu is also affected, with more than half of all asylum applications in the eu coming from germany and sweden. it is necessary to monitor closely the evolution of the situation and to prepare for possible contingencies, to support humanitarian and other efforts to improve as far as possible the situation of refugees in third countries and to take responsible measures in response to the possible influx of refugees into the member states. it is worth noting that legal entry into the eu is preferred to illegal entry, which can lead to the risk of trafficking in human beings and a recurrence of cases such as the lampedusa disaster.
for the alde group discrimination on the grounds of caste is the greatest paradox of the 21st century. when the world has shrunk to a place for all humanity, when the lines between locality and globalization have blurred, when human rights have become a matter for humanity rather than a matter for a single state, there are still hundreds of millions of people who are denied even the right to be human. these are the untouchables and other social groups that suffer from the caste discrimination that exists even in progressive and democratic countries. if we explain the caste system's disrespect for humanity in terms of cultural and religious specificity, we are betraying those who are close to us and who are people like ourselves. this is not a problem of one country (in this case india), it is a widespread global problem. it is strategically important that the fight against caste discrimination be systematically integrated into the human rights formulation and practice of the european union. caste discrimination must be treated as a specific problem which must be addressed in conjunction with other forms of discrimination discrimination on grounds of ethnic origin, race, religion, belief, sex or sexual orientation. today's debate and resolution are an important step in that direction, but we have a long way to go to ensure that the 260 million people who still suffer from caste discrimination can one day live in dignity and enjoy all the human rights that are inherent in it. i would once again urge the eu institutions to fight caste discrimination comprehensively and in a coordinated manner at all levels in their human rights strategies, in their dialogues with partner countries and in the un human rights council. i also call on my colleagues to vote in favour of this resolution and ask them, in the name of so-called realpolitik, not to abandon the respect for human rights and dignity which is at the heart of our european political identity.
mr president, the paradox of the situation is that in fact, instead of celebrating its great tradition of dissent and human rights defenders –people like andrei sakharov, yelena bonner, andrei sinyavsky, lyudmila alexeyeva, vladimir bukovsky – russia is trying to stigmatise them. this is one of the great absurdities of this time because ‘foreign agent’ was a term applied by stalin to the enemies of the state. we are now seeing the ghosts of the soviet union when they try to stigmatise and humiliate ngos or lgbti people. what is happening in russia? the country has every right to celebrate its great share and great role in dissent and human rights defence – we have the supreme award of the european parliament for freedom of expression named after andrei sakharov, one of the greatest russians of the 20th century – but all of a sudden we have to remind russia of its great role and try to shame it for stigmatising the best of russia. this is a great paradox and i do not think we should be silent.
in writing. − i supported the proposal as it is important to continue to promote strong cooperation and dialogue with the hashemite kingdom of jordan in the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy and to develop the union-jordan dialogue in the political and economic fields. i welcome and support the active and constructive role of jordan in mediation to find long-term solutions to the various conflicts in the middle east. appropriate financial, technical and humanitarian assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan is necessary to preserve the political and economic stability of jordan. the joint agreement between the european union and the hashemite kingdom of jordan on the participation of jordan in european union programmes is therefore very welcome as it provides an opportunity to enhance dialogue and cooperation with jordan and sends a positive signal about the importance of eu-jordan relations. however, it will be necessary to continue to provide jordan with all possible support on the basis of programmes implemented under the european neighbourhood policy and other financial instruments for financing the external action of the european union, in order to further develop the political and economic dialogue with jordan and to support the country's efforts to implement reforms aimed at consolidating the principles of democracy, accountability, transparency and justice.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the main objective of the proposal is to prevent border violations, reduce the number of illegal immigrants dying at sea, increase internal security in the eu and help prevent crossborder crime. the european border surveillance system (eurosur) will not be created as an eu fund, but as a common technical framework to develop the standards needed to streamline the cooperation and communication of the institutions (both eu and member states) around the clock, seven days a week. eurosur should help member states to ensure full awareness of the situation at their external borders and to increase the response capacity of their law enforcement authorities. eurosur should provide a common technical framework to simplify day-to-day cooperation and communication between member states' authorities and to facilitate the use of the latest technologies for border surveillance purposes. to this end, coordination centres will have to be set up in each member state to cooperate with each other and with the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex). one of the successes of eurosur is the exchange of information with neighbouring third countries. moldova has requested the possibility of joining eurosur (the eu-moldova protocol on enhanced cooperation), and ukraine is expected to join in the medium-term. a similar approach is planned with russia (currently via coastnet).
in writing. - the proposal aims to amend the directive by stipulating that cadmium can only be used in portable batteries and accumulators for wireless power tools until 31 december 2015. in view of the environmental impact of cadmium, the commission proposal is welcomed. the social and economic aspects of the ban on the use of nickel-cadmium batteries in cordless power tools and the environmental aspects of this ban were taken into account. it is proposed to extend the exemption for nickel-cadmium batteries by one year, until 31 december 2016, in order to allow time for all economic operators throughout the value chain to continue to adopt the relevant alternative technologies in a more uniform manner and taking into account the business cycle of natural cordless power tools in all regions of the union. the extension of the exemption period by one year to 31 december 2016 would therefore be a reasonable compromise, protecting the interests of both consumers and business operators along the value chain, ensuring the protection of the environment and human health, while allowing additional time for the development of technologies, the exchange of best practices and innovation in this field.
in writing. - i welcome this decision, which will tighten up the use and placing on the market of environmentally harmful portable batteries and accumulators. as scientific progress leads to the discovery of products with lower environmental impact, it is also necessary to adopt legal measures allowing the use of batteries and cells with minimal impact on the environment and human beings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because the exchange of information on crossborder criminal activity is the cornerstone of law enforcement cooperation in the eu and is particularly important in an area without internal border controls. with the increase in cross-border crime in the eu, the need for an efficient and secure exchange of information between law enforcement authorities, while respecting data protection and fundamental rights, is becoming even more important. the communications provide an overview of the different existing eu instruments and channels for cross-border exchange of information between law enforcement authorities. the current mix of different instruments, channels and tools is complex and fragmented, leading to inefficient use of the instruments at eu level and insufficient democratic oversight, and in some cases to significant delays in the provision of activities and access.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the text of the resolution on strengthening crossborder cooperation in the field of law enforcement, as the mechanism of cooperation between eu countries needs to be improved. the eu is an area without internal border controls, and better coordination between eu countries is needed in the case of cross-border crime. several events (such as the release of the suspect mr golovatov) have shown that cooperation between the institutions is too slow and that better coordination at eu level is needed, which would also allow for better data protection.
in writing. − discrimination exists in many countries around the world, and the majority of victims of discrimination are in south asia, although it is still widespread in other countries. caste dependency is determined at birth and is both nonselective and natural. the caste community continues to experience high levels of social exclusion, poverty, violence, prejudice, and restricted or even prohibited participation in politics, public life, and the labour market. i support the european parliament's call to take account of the un recommendations on non-discrimination on the basis of caste and to incorporate such provisions into relevant eu legislation.
in writing. − i agree with the annual report of the committee on petitions. it should be noted that the committee on petitions plays a key role in the establishment of measures for the redress of civil wrongs. it also plays an effective role as an intermediary between the citizens, parliament and the commission. it is therefore essential to ensure that the examination of petitions meets the requirements of judicial review. the petition procedure must be made more efficient, transparent and impartial. it is one of the main pillars of european citizenship, enabling the public to participate in the decision-making process of the european union. in order to increase the accountability and transparency of the committee, its facilities should be improved by providing opportunities for european citizens to raise relevant issues in plenary, as well as opportunities to call witnesses, conduct investigations and prepare hearings. i believe that urgent petition procedures should be established and put in place in the near future. in addition, cooperation with the parliaments and governments of the member states must be steadily strengthened on a reciprocal basis.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to make two points. i regret the decision taken by the eu high representative to terminate the mandate of the eu special representative for sudan and south sudan, given the severe political unrest in sudan and the armed conflicts, during which sudanese forces and government-sponsored militias continue to engage in war crimes with impunity. without a designated eu special representative for sudan and south sudan, the eu will be left on the sidelines of international negotiations and efforts, especially considering that the united states, russia and china all have special envoys for sudan. i call on the high representative to reverse her decision and extend the mandate of the special representative for sudan and south sudan. secondly, the government of sudan must cooperate with the international criminal court. it has obligation and a capacity to cooperate, and any arrest warrant issued by the icc should be respected.
mr president, a long list of recent attacks and acts of terrorism are mentioned in our draft resolution. thousands of civilians have been killed and thousands injured. the stance and position of the government of iraq and the regional governments are of great importance. today we are calling on these governments to condemn the attacks and to facilitate a full and swift independent international investigation into the recent attacks in order to bring those responsible to justice. we also strongly condemn the attack on camp ashraf on 1 september, which left 52 iranian refugees dead, and the abduction of seven residents, including six women, who are believed to be being held in baghdad. we call for their immediate and unconditional release.
author. − madam president, the eastern partnership vilnius summit represents a historic opportunity not to be missed for the union. the eu may sign an association agreement, including a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta), with ukraine. such an agreement may entail large economic and commercial benefits for this country and tie its laws and standards to our single market. to capitalise on these gains, ukraine must do two things. firstly, it must run the last mile in fulfilling the political requirements set by the eu, enabling the eu to prepare the implementation of the dcfta together with our ukrainian friends. secondly, it must prepare the economic ground which would allow the dcfta to bring the expected results, in particular with regard to the following. ukraine still needs to improve its business climate, fight corruption and work together with the eu on fixing the bilateral trade irritants. while i am supportive of the ukrainian willingness to sign and implement the dcfta, i worry that not all efforts are being made to actually turn the country towards a more business-friendly environment and towards resolving serious commercial issues, such as the recently-introduced car recycling fee, the delays in vat reimbursements, etc. secondly, the demand by ukraine to renegotiate its tariffs at the wto over more than 300 tariff lines, just when it is about to sign and implement a dcfta which would slash bilateral tariffs, also raises concerns. thirdly, ukraine must broadly reform its economy, not only to prepare for implementing its commitments towards the eu, but also to improve its track record and convince the imf that it can be a serious and committed recipient of international loans and repay its debts. this raises concerns, and i know that commissioner de gucht went to ukraine a fortnight ago and that he has regular contacts with the ukrainian government. but can the commission quote at least some signs of progress made by ukraine towards meeting our expectations for the economic reforms? so i ask the commission: how can europe and ukraine effectively work on the future application of the dcfta when so many bilateral trade irritants remain? on moldova and georgia, i urge the commission to find ways to shield these countries from russian pressure: they must be allowed to prepare for the signature and the application of the dcftas in the coming years. there again, the case of ukraine should serve as a lesson that the eu should not stand still and should be proactive. i welcome the commission proposal to increase our autonomous trade preferences to moldova by removing eu quotas on their exports of wine. this gesture will go a long way towards countering russian pressure by showing the people of moldova that the eu can act swiftly and show solidarity. on georgia, i remain concerned that the implementation will be complicated by the georgian government’s lack of control over south ossetia and abkhazia. but we should note that, despite the world crisis and the conflicts, georgia has remained an open trading partner which can boast a very good economic record in recent years. encouraging it to continue on this path should be the key to sustaining the vilnius momentum into 2014, until the association agreement encompassing a dcfta is signed. finally, the upcoming summit is an opportunity to reassess our relations with armenia and azerbaijan, two countries which for different reasons are not on track towards signing a dcfta. i deeply regret armenia’s decision to join the customs union, mostly for geopolitical reasons which have nothing to do with the long-term economic needs and interests of this country, which is already largely integrated with the customs union partners through the commonwealth of independent states. this course of events determines the necessity not to reduce to zero but to redefine and if possible keep improving our trade relations with armenia. surely the armenian membership of a customs union does not facilitate such a task? but i look forward to hearing from the commissioner on this issue. as for azerbaijan, the eu cannot consider negotiating a dcfta because this country is not a wto member. but the commission should make good use of the opportunity to upgrade the trade-and-investment-related provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement and should explore the value of sectoral agreements, for example in the field of trade in energy products. let us not be dogmatic about the notion of association agreements. after vilnius we should consider being innovative in proposing new forms of agreements with these two partners. finally, regarding belarus, i look forward to hearing from the commissioner on the status of belarus’s wto accession perspectives. to conclude, i want this vilnius summit to be a success, but it can only be successful if we see it not as an end in itself but as the beginning of the next phase of the eastern partnership towards implementing economic integration with the eu and finally seeing things change on the ground for the benefit of the citizens in our eastern partner countries.
mr president, the union’s programme of european partnership means, first of all, the promotion of european values in our european neighbourhood. secondly, it means giving preference to european cooperation with neighbours as partners, as well as mutual rapprochement between six, five or four partner states themselves and with the eu, with a view to encouraging peace-building processes where true reconciliation remains necessary and peace is still endangered. the caucuses is one example. if the eu is able to convey this message effectively, that would give great meaning to our existence and to our european mission in the contemporary world. we consider the task as a goodwill effort and a chance to build a better world. unfortunately, there is a stage at which, once it is reached, opposing values and goals prevail. you speak about the promotion of european values in the east of europe. to hell with your values! we are in favour of eurasian, post-dictatorial values. our style and our order must prevail. you speak about rapprochement and peace-building which would lead to increased peace and cooperation. to hell! that is your damned colonialism! we others prefer tension, confrontation and conflict, which are beneficial for our policies of manipulation and governance – direct or indirect. those two stances – the union’s and the kremlin’s – are hardly compatible, to say the least. therefore, we should not debate as if we were in a competition for some objects of interest. no, ladies and gentlemen – and comrades in the kremlin – they are not objects to be taken either by the east or the west. they are nation states with the freedom of choice. that should be stated in a very calm and consistent manner. only in this way may we insist on russia choosing to prefer partnership with the eu, since hostile confrontations with all and sundry lead eventually to nothing but misery.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. council regulation (ec) no 1215/2009 establishes a system of exceptional trade measures for countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process. this regulation provides for the exclusive and unlimited duty-free entry into the eu market of virtually all goods originating in albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, kosovo, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia. kosovo has not been subject to this regulation until now and can only benefit from the gtc, but when other countries benefit from this gtc, kosovo exporters lose access to the eu market on preferential terms. i approve the amendment to the annex to this regulation to grant kosovo a tariff quota of 20 000 hectolitres of wine.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the eu has established a system of exclusive trade arrangements for countries and territories participating in or linked to the european union's stabilisation and association process. in fact, this regulation provides for the duty-free admission to the eu market of almost all goods from albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, kosovo, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia, on an exclusive and unlimited basis. the eu has concluded stabilisation and association agreements or interim agreements on trade and trade-related matters with the listed countries, with the exception of kosovo. kosovo has only a single gtc, but when other countries use this gtc, kosovo exporters lose access to the eu market on preferential terms. the proposed amendment corrects this situation and grants kosovo a tariff quota of 20 000 hl of wine.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the provision of macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic in the form of grants and loans. i support the envisaged support of up to eur 30 million to support economic stabilisation and balance of payments needs in kyrgyzstan. i believe that macro-financial assistance is particularly important for this country because it enables it to deal more effectively with the economic and social problems in the country. the ethnic violence that occurred in the kyrgyz republic in 2010 disrupted the country's economy and had a direct impact on the decline in trade, tourism and agricultural production flows.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic. in 2009, kyrgyzstan was hit by a global crisis. soon afterward, its economic problems were compounded by a worldwide revolt that overthrew the regime of president bakiyev. many people died, and some 300,000 were forced to flee their homes. the international community has committed to providing assistance to the kyrgyz authorities in their efforts to mitigate the consequences of these events. the european union is seeking to provide financial assistance of eur 30 million to kyrgyzstan. the commission will pursue macro-financial assistance in the form of structural reforms aimed at improving the overall macroeconomic governance and conditions for sustainable growth (transparency and efficiency in public financial management, fiscal reform and financial stability). i agree that eu assistance should be conditional on the kyrgyz republic's adherence to effective democratic mechanisms and respect for human rights. the commission is to monitor compliance with these conditions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the eu granting macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic amounting to eur 30 million. this assistance will help to meet the commission's external financing needs of the kyrgyz republic for the remainder of 2012. the macro-financial assistance and the related reform programme will help the kyrgyz republic to reduce short-term financing needs, while supporting policy measures aimed at achieving a stronger balance of payments and fiscal sustainability in the medium term and promoting sustainable growth. this macro-financial assistance will contribute to improving the efficiency and transparency of public financial management.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on in vitro diagnostic medical devices. diagnostic medical devices (dmds) are among the most important medical devices and can be the basis for all therapies, including pharmaceuticals and surgery. proper diagnosis is essential to preventing diseases and ensuring effective treatment. the introduction of low-quality ivds on the market increases the risk that the results of the studies will be misleading and that the treatment chosen will not be beneficial or even life-threatening. since these devices can circulate freely in the eu single market and are not subject to national restrictions, we must ensure that they are as safe as possible. in other words, the hundreds of thousands of different types of medical devices currently on the european union market - from patches, syringes, catheters and blood sampling devices to sophisticated implants and life support technologies - must be safe not only for patients, but also for healthcare professionals who use or handle them and for non-specialists who come into contact with them. i agree with the rapporteur that the controls by member states on the use of these devices should be strengthened and that inspections can be carried out without prior warning.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to tighten controls on medical devices. the commission has proposed two more transparent and more scientifically and technologically advanced regulations in this area: the medical devices regulation and the in vitro diagnostic medical devices regulation. there are currently more than 500 000 different types of appliances on the market, worth around €95 billion. these include products such as patches, contact lenses, x-ray machines, pacemakers, hiv blood tests, and so forth. i support the proposed rules which will improve the availability of these products on the market and strengthen the control of in vitro diagnostic medical devices, especially after the scandal in europe over substandard breast implants and hip replacements. i support the proposals for stricter supervision of independent evaluation bodies, clearer rights and obligations for manufacturers, importers and distributors, and an expanded medical device database. it is essential to ensure better traceability of devices throughout the supply chain and to be able to respond quickly and effectively to safety concerns.
in writing. − i voted in favour as it will improve patient information on the use of diagnostic medical devices for hiv, pregnancy or dna testing. the proposed reinforcement will increase public safety and strengthen the oversight and control of the entire certification system.
in writing. − i agree with the position that patient safety must be ensured, especially in view of the incidents in recent years of substandard medicines being used in patients. however, as with medicinal products, i would point out that the proposed regulation has its shortcomings. in particular, the proposed verification procedure may, in my view, become a disproportionately complex and costly measure of a restrictive nature.
in writing. − the list of recent health scandals has become too long. it is important to stop these issues at the beginning, the diagnostic stage. without a sufficient diagnostic there is no proper treatment or disease prevention. low quality hiv tests placed on the common market are a good example of how a small diagnostic mistake can lead to major consequences. in the past these low quality tests have produced false negative results, leading the patient to believe he or she is virus free. consequently, the misinformed, infected patient will unknowingly spread hiv. it is up to the eu to ensure the highest possible safety for these ivd medical devices because there are no national borders for these products. further strengthening of the proposed system will only continue to enhance public safety. unannounced visits in production facilities will hold manufacturers accountable and a central approval authority is a good option for preventing future scandals. patient security and safety should always lie at the heart of our concerns, which is why i voted in favour of this report on in vitro diagnostic medical devices.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to tighten controls on medical devices. the commission has proposed two more transparent and more scientifically and technologically advanced regulations in this area: the medical devices regulation and the in vitro diagnostic medical devices regulation. there are currently more than 500 000 different types of appliances on the market, worth around €95 billion. these include products such as patches, contact lenses, x-ray machines, pacemakers, hiv blood tests, and so forth. i support the proposed rules which will improve the availability of these products on the market and strengthen the control of in vitro diagnostic medical devices, especially after the scandal in europe over substandard breast implants and hip replacements. i support the proposals for stricter supervision of independent evaluation bodies, clearer rights and obligations for manufacturers, importers and distributors, and an expanded medical device database. it is essential to ensure better traceability of devices throughout the supply chain and to be able to respond quickly and effectively to safety concerns.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amendments to the medical device rules to strengthen the control and traceability of these products, such as breast implants or hip replacements. the amendments to the rules on the use of medical devices proposed by the european parliament will make it easier for patients and healthcare professionals to access clinical data to help them choose the most appropriate medical device for treatment. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. it is essential to provide adequate information to patients on the consequences of genetic testing, to provide for bodies to certify medical devices and to increase the traceability of these devices.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on medical devices, because the current regulation is 20 years old and outdated, and improvements are necessary. stronger supervision of notified bodies (which approve medical devices), unannounced checks on manufacturers, a database on medical devices for better public information, and improvements in safety concerns through a unique identifier which will provide better traceability and recall information, are needed. i support the socialist mep roth-behrendt’s report, because it also focuses on strengthening the patient-safety side of the legislation through a pre-marketing process for high-risk devices, strengthening requirements for notified bodies by increasing expertise and making it available in-house, and creating stricter conditions for multi-use medical devices. with the additions in this report, patient safety and public health would become the main focus when it comes to medical devices.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on ship recycling. any ship carrying various hazardous materials and leaving the european union for dismantling is itself a dangerous vessel and can therefore only be legally dismantled by the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd). according to the european commission, the majority of dismantling operations are carried out outside the oecd (e.g. in india, pakistan, bangladesh) using a shore-to-shore mechanism, which has environmental and health implications. in such a situation, ship owners may decide not to invest in the costly refurbishment of their vessels, but to scrap them. i agree with the rapporteur that in order to ensure safe ship recycling, the following measures are necessary: the introduction of a financial mechanism to finance environmentally safe ship recycling; the establishment of a list of hazardous substances for all ships calling at eu ports; establish a ship recycling plan for all eu vessels intended for recycling or over 20 years old, subject to approval by the competent authorities; and apply specific sanctions for infringements.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. eu legislation has already introduced a ban on the export of hazardous waste from the eu to countries outside the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) since 1998. however, according to the commission's impact assessment, this legal provision is very often circumvented due to the lack of ship recycling capacity, especially for the largest ships, in the oecd countries. there is very high and unfair competition between processors in the main processing countries (bangladesh, india and pakistan) and their competitors with higher technical standards (eu, turkey and china). the european parliament has already made its position clear on this issue on two occasions, calling for the full implementation of the ban on the export of hazardous waste, including ship-related waste, a clear ban on the landfill method, a list of hazardous materials for all ships entering eu ports, and the establishment of a mandatory shipping industry contribution fund to ensure environmentally sound ship recycling.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it is important not to tolerate the dismantling of ships under conditions harmful to people and the environment. most shipowners try to make the most profit by selling their vessels to places where there are no labour and environmental standards and therefore they can offer the highest price. this is a clear market failure, with negative effects on workers' health and the environment. a financial mechanism should be provided to finance the environmentally sound recycling of the ship. all ships calling at eu ports could be charged a fee based on their tonnage. the fees would be transferred to a fund from which a premium would be paid for actual recycling to ship recycling facilities which comply with the provisions of this regulation, in order to ensure their competitiveness. the list of dangerous substances should also be used for all ships calling at eu ports. the appropriate list would be a key precondition for the proper recycling of ships. the ship recycling plan should apply to all ships over 20 years old in order to give owners time to reflect on their responsibilities. such a plan should be approved by the competent authorities. it is essential to ensure that recycling and waste management are environmentally sound.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because it would be unethical to continue to tolerate the dismantling of ships under conditions harmful to people and the environment. under the eu waste shipping regulation, exports of hazardous waste from the eu to non-oecd countries have been prohibited since 1998. this prohibition is intended to implement the eu's so-called partial amendment to the requirements of the basel convention on the control of transboundary movements of hazardous wastes and their disposal. any ship carrying various dangerous substances which leaves the eu for dismantling is itself a dangerous ship and can therefore only be legally dismantled in oecd countries. however, this legal provision is very often circumvented. according to the commission's impact assessment, in 2009, more than 90% of eu-flagged vessels were dismantled outside the oecd, mainly in south asia (india, pakistan and bangladesh), using the so-called 'shore-to-shore' method, which has significant environmental and health impacts. this poses a significant both immediate and chronic risk to workers, there is no proper storage of hazardous substances and some hazardous substances that are removed separately are not handled properly. this is the cruelest form of capitalism. most shipowners try to make the most profit by selling their vessels to places where there are no labour and environmental standards and therefore they can offer the highest price. this is a clear market failure, due to the extra cost of outsourcing, with a detrimental impact on workers' health and the environment.
in writing. − the proper recycling and recovery of waste is one of the key objectives of eu environmental policy. therefore, the establishment of detailed rules for the handling of ships and dangerous goods on board should be welcomed. however, this legislation only partially addresses the problem, as a large proportion of vessels belonging essentially to eu entities fly the flags of third countries. a more comprehensive discussion is therefore needed to ensure that such ships are also properly recycled and do not endanger people and the environment in third country ports or coasts.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on european demographic statistics, which aims to regulate the provision and compilation of population data. given the growing demographic challenges and their increasing importance for the development of the european union as a whole, statistical data are essential for making meaningful comparisons and drawing conclusions and identifying options for further action. we, the members of the european parliament, call for local, regional and national databases on demographic change to be made comparable, so that data can be evaluated at european level and to encourage the exchange of good practice between national, regional and local authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on european demographic statistics. this proposal aims to establish common principles for the production of systematic european demographic statistics, which would govern the collection, processing and transmission of data on population and natural change statistics. the eu and the world are facing increasing demographic challenges, which are increasingly relevant to the eu's development. clear, reliable and comparable data are therefore essential to draw conclusions and identify opportunities for action across all eu policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as it aims to regulate the provision and harmonisation of population data in the member states. to this end, it is necessary to establish common principles for the systematic production of european demographic statistics governing the collection, processing and transmission of data on population and natural change statistics. demographic statistics would be harmonised across europe and therefore comparable. demographic challenges are multiplying and are becoming increasingly important for the development of the eu. only statistical data on this issue can make meaningful comparisons and draw conclusions and identify possible actions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which covers mauritania, mali, niger and the respective parts of burkina faso and chad belonging to the sahel region. the sahel is one of the poorest regions in the world, with very serious human rights, military conflict and economic and social development challenges. political instability in the sahel region, combined with adverse natural conditions, pose a serious threat to democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. there are 300,000 internally displaced persons in mali and 175,000 refugees in neighbouring burkina faso, niger and mauritania. i support calls for governments in the sahel region to address the root causes of the crisis through a sustainable economic development strategy that addresses political, economic and social challenges in the areas of food, education, healthcare, etc. the eu should ensure that its development assistance is allocated efficiently, enhancing the coherence of the union's internal and external policies, while respecting the eu's development-related objectives. i support calls on the governments of the sahel states to uphold the principles of judicial independence and impartiality and to strive to improve their knowledge of human rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is of the utmost importance to protect human rights and democratic principles, based on the rule of law and transparent and accountable governance. the sahel region is a party to most international treaties protecting human rights and the rights of women and children, but the multifaceted crises in the political, social, economic and environmental fields have worsened the human rights situation in the sahel region. it is the european union, as the world's largest donor, which has played a key role in addressing the development challenges facing the sahel region. it is important to strengthen the legitimacy of institutions and to address the growing development and human rights challenges in the region, as various forms of corruption severely limit access to basic health and education services. the role of a free and organised civil society and the media in monitoring and reporting violations is crucial. in addition, there is a need to involve other international actors and, in line with the millennium development goals, to make efforts to eradicate poverty and hunger, promote gender equality, reduce child mortality rates, etc.
in writing. − there needs to be a higher focus on human rights in eu policy towards the sahel region than there has been in the past. the un estimates that some 18 million people were affected by the severe food and nutrition crisis of 2012 in the sahel region. terrorism, human trafficking, arms trafficking, and drug trafficking are further issues that need to be addressed in this region. a focus needs to be placed on gender equality because women are most often the victims of these human rights violations. the unʼs work in contributing to security and stability should be supported, as well as promotion of good governance and internal conflict resolution. current policy still does not adequately support democracy or anti-corruption measures. the quality of life in this region must be improved and ties with democratic governments must be strengthened. for these reasons i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on human rights in the sahel region.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. the objective of the proposal is to create a favourable environment for civil society organisations (csos) and local authorities (lgos) in the european union. the role of the oda and oius in building citizen-government links and ensuring multi-stakeholder democratic accountability for national development agendas is important, and i therefore support the need to pursue a broader and more ambitious partnership with them. i support the proposals to develop draft action plans for joint work with the who, with a strong focus on capacity building of the imo and who in fragile states, their partnership and cooperation with the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the eu needs to commit itself more and more to building accountable, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relations with partner countries, civil society organisations and local authorities to achieve more sustainable development outcomes. the eu should give greater priority to initiatives at national level to promote accountability partnerships between civil society organisations, parliaments and the court of auditors. it is also necessary to ensure the right of initiative of civil society organisations as independent actors and to strike the right balance between the right of initiative and the principle of coherence. the eu should support the diversity of civil society as a key factor needed to build a democratic society and ensure the active and effective participation of disadvantaged populations. the role of european local authorities in promoting education and raising public awareness of development issues is particularly important. therefore, there is a need to support partnerships between european and partner country local authorities, which have already proven their effectiveness in capacity building and poverty reduction. it is also essential that local authorities in the new member states exchange experience in development cooperation with local authorities in the old member states, as this is the only way to overcome the differences in experience between these countries.
in writing. − i supported the proposal as the eu needs to commit itself more and more to accountable, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive relations with partner countries, the who and the oau in order to achieve more sustainable development outcomes. the eu should therefore give greater priority to initiatives at national level to promote accountability partnerships between the who, parliaments and the court of auditors. addressing the issue of supporting more democratic societies requires the eu to make a stronger political commitment to promoting an enabling environment for ngos and ngos, to strengthen their capacities and to mainstream these issues in policy and programming. promoting a positive environment should be considered a priority issue of the eu's post-2015 development agenda and eu delegations' staff should be trained accordingly. the eu should support a favourable environment, i.e. policy and regulatory provisions, as well as a mechanism for monitoring multi-stakeholder dialogue. it is also necessary to ensure the right of initiative of the octs as independent actors and to strike the right balance between the right of initiative and the principle of coordination. the eu should support the diversity of civil society as a key factor needed to build a democratic society and ensure the active and effective participation of disadvantaged populations.
in writing. − i support the report on local authorities and civil society and european involvement in support of sustainable development, as strengthening these institutions is essential to the principle of democratic accountability. the involvement of citizens in the active activities of local authorities and civil society organisations is essential for the development of a democratic and civil society. it is necessary to ensure that even those who are not in a favourable position are encouraged to participate in community activities. the promotion of such activities must be based on a human rights perspective. only by doing so can we create an open, cohesive and civically aware society.
in writing. − the eu needs to work towards creating transparent human-rights based relations among governments, civil society organisations, and local authorities. to achieve the goal of eradicating poverty, the eu should focus on creating a favourable environment at national level so human rights can be mainstreamed. dialogue among public administrators, the private sector and citizens is key to sustaining a democratic society. local authorities must participate in the fight against corruption and tax evasion. an exchange of expertise among old member states and new member states and partner countries would be beneficial to ensure that the relationship between local authorities and civil societies flourishes to help in eradicating poverty and improving human rights. because the involvement of local authorities and the relationships with partnering countries is so valuable, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on local authorities and civil society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the modernisation of education and training policy. in march 2013, youth unemployment in the eu under 25 reached 23,5%, but more than 2 million jobs remained unfilled. this problem has been created by the current situation where the opportunities offered by educational institutions often do not meet the needs of the modern labour market. outdated education systems that do not ensure that educational opportunities are aligned with the existing labour market need to be updated. i believe that the productivity of teaching and learning in the eu can be increased by better recognition of skills and qualifications and thus by promoting mobility. it is necessary to promote university-business partnerships, to better develop lifelong learning strategies to reduce the number of low-skilled adults and to encourage scientific institutions to use new technologies. i agree that non-formal learning, self-education and youth work should also be better recognised.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is really important to develop employability skills, to improve basic literacy and numeracy skills, to strengthen general and entrepreneurial skills. the productivity of teaching and learning in europe can be increased by better recognition of skills and qualifications. at the same time, the use of open educational resources and new technologies should be promoted to increase access to learning materials and increase student participation. teachers need to be provided with the appropriate vocational training to renew their own skills. in addition, university-business partnerships and work-based learning are needed, as well as better developed lifelong learning strategies to encourage new initiatives for education and training reform. the newly acquired competences and universal skills should meet not only the financial but also the social and personal needs of people. non-formal learning, self-education, youth work, quality internships, apprenticeships and volunteering should be recognised as the means to establish the first links between student life and the labour market, to spread the spirit of innovation among young people. personal competence is also essential to be better prepared not only for professional life but also for private life. if we are to make this a reality, investing in quality education must be long-term and sustainable. in addition, we must take all additional measures to enhance the well-being and development opportunities of individuals, and this must be fully recognised at eu and national levels.
in writing. − i voted in favour, because it is necessary not only to identify the key skills and tasks of people entering the labour market, but also to think of ways of maintaining the precondition of their personal and economic independence. every human being has the right to bathe. if we are to make this a reality, investing in quality education must be long-term and sustainable. in addition, we must take all additional measures to enhance the well-being and development opportunities of individuals, and this must be fully recognised at union and national level. the key measure is productive, accessible and quality education, which meets the needs of the labour market. education and training should be more accessible to vulnerable groups such as socially disadvantaged persons, persons with disabilities, minorities, older citizens and women and should enhance their opportunities to live a life of value. a reassessment of european education systems requires close cooperation. the social dialogue between education and business, social partners, social service providers (employment services), regional authorities or ngos needs to be strengthened in order to exchange good practices and promote partnerships. the modernisation of education and training policies also requires greater involvement of civil society and the social responsibility of the business community. in addition, business partners can play an important role in helping students to acquire new skills.
in writing. − the youth unemployment rate in the european union currently stands at 25%, while there are 2 million job vacancies across the union due to the lack of qualified professionals. graduates have a lot of theoretical knowledge, but not necessarily practical skills in the labour market. i agree with the rapporteur, the social democrat, k. nevedalová, who calls for changes in education systems to develop the skills needed in the labour market. the austrian and swedish higher education systems could be examples of effective youth orientation in the most job-creating areas of information technology and healthcare. i agree with the rapporteurs that lifelong learning should be promoted throughout the eu. labour mobility is not necessarily the solution to unemployment, as the new eu countries lose specialists who migrate to the richer old ones.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because of the efforts of the candidate countries to improve their judicial systems and the fight against corruption. on average, only 2.78% of the total eu pre-accession aid package for the 2007-2013 period was allocated to justice and only 0.52% to the fight against corruption. i support the calls for more and more adequate funding for these two sectors. i support the proposals to centralise the data on the use of funds for projects receiving eu pre-accession assistance every six months and to develop a clear definition of the scope of projects in the areas of judicial authorities and the fight against corruption. it is necessary to develop a long-term perspective for the financing of civil society organisations working in the fields of transparency and the fight against corruption from eu funds. i believe that the ep should be more involved in monitoring the way in which pre-accession funds are allocated in the candidate countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the fight against corruption and organised crime is one of the highest priorities for any candidate country or potential candidate country with a european perspective. the effectiveness of the pre-accession projects in the areas of the judiciary and the fight against corruption depends first and foremost on the political will of the public authorities, as it is necessary to approve and fully implement the reforms. the provision of independent judiciaries, the protection and promotion of fundamental rights and the effective fight against corruption are therefore essential to strengthening the rule of law and democracy. the european parliament should be actively involved in monitoring the allocation and allocation of pre-accession funds in candidate and potential candidate countries in all areas, including judicial systems and the fight against corruption. it is therefore important that parliament is informed of the implementation of the pre-accession facility (paf) and the distribution of funds in the candidate countries. it is important to link eu financial support more closely to development policy priorities, in particular as regards the rule of law, in order to improve the independence, accountability, impartiality, professionalism, transparency and efficiency of judicial systems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as the fight against corruption and organised crime is one of the highest priorities for any candidate country or potential candidate country with a european perspective. ensuring the independence of the judiciary, the protection and promotion of fundamental rights and the effective fight against corruption are essential to strengthening the rule of law and democracy. it is essential to link eu financial assistance more closely to development policy priorities, in particular as regards the rule of law, in order to improve the independence, accountability, impartiality, professionalism, transparency and efficiency of judicial systems. it is also desirable to see results in the impartial and successful prosecution and judicial decision-making in the fight against corruption, including high-profile cases, in order to increase citizens' trust in the rule of law and public institutions. freedom of the press and media and digital freedom are important tools of government control and important elements in the fight against corruption, as they provide not only a platform for freedom of expression but also access to information for the public. parliament should be actively involved in monitoring the allocation and allocation of pre-accession funds in candidate and potential candidate countries in all areas, including judicial systems and the fight against corruption.
in writing. − the rule of law is a cornerstone of democracy and a necessary condition for a market economy, which requires the strengthening of independent judiciaries, the protection of fundamental rights and the effective fight against corruption. the european funds are allocated in the hope that turkey and the western balkan countries will improve their judicial systems and fight corruption at the early stages of the accession process and continue reforms once they become eu member states. taking into account the experience of european projects already implemented, and in order to achieve more sustainable reform outcomes in the future, it is necessary to strengthen the shared responsibility through the contribution of countries to eu-funded projects, to allocate more funding in the areas of the judiciary and the fight against corruption in the common packet, to improve the administration and monitoring of funds and to ensure greater publicity and transparency.
in writing. - i agreed to this. statistics show that each year, on average, 5% of hospital-acquired infections in the european union, or 3.2 million people, are caused by healthcare-associated infections, of which 37 000 people die. however, at least 20% of healthcare-associated infections could be prevented if appropriate measures were taken. although the council has issued recommendations to member states to take measures to minimise harm to patients receiving healthcare, the commission report states that only a few ngos have implemented the recommendations so far. it is necessary to improve healthcare as far as possible, both in and outside hospitals, in particular through the training of healthcare professionals or nurses, improving the patient information situation and supporting research activities aimed at the prevention and control of healthcare-associated infections.
in writing. − i voted for this report because access to healthcare is a key factor in a quality healthcare system. it is also a fundamental human right that the european union, its institutions and its citizens must uphold. patients have the right to expect that every effort will be made to ensure their safety. patient safety, in particular the prevention and control of healthcare-associated infections, must be at the top of the political agenda of the european union, both at national level in the member states and at regional and local levels. it is important to improve healthcare both in and out of hospitals, in particular by empowering patients, training healthcare professionals or nurses, and further efforts are needed to develop an eu-wide patient safety classification or to establish guidelines for eu patient safety standards. the european centre for disease prevention and control shall provide additional benefits in the area of prevention and control of healthcare-associated infections through coordination and monitoring activities. it is therefore important, in the light of the financial perspective, to ensure sufficient and long-term funding for this centre to enable it to carry out its coordination and monitoring activities properly.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because of the need to improve healthcare as much as possible, both in and out of hospitals, in particular by empowering patients, by training healthcare professionals or nurses in a broad sense, and by continuing efforts to develop an eu-wide patient safety classification or to establish guidelines for eu patient safety standards. citizens need to be empowered in the areas of patient safety and prevention and control of healthcare-associated infections, and action is needed in the areas of training and education of healthcare professionals, patients and their carers, and cross-border actions and measures to promote scientific research into patient safety and healthcare-associated infections. in the context of an ageing eu population and the worrying rise in antimicrobial resistance, patient safety, in particular the prevention and control of healthcare-associated infections, must be at the top of the political agenda of the european union, both at national level in the member states and at regional and local levels. member states must provide sufficient resources, including budgetary resources, for patient safety.
in writing. − i agree with the provisions in this document on the priority role of patient safety in eu public health policy. i would like to stress two aspects: the importance of prevention and information. effective preventive measures taken in a timely manner would save member states' health budgets a large proportion of the money spent on treatment. on the other hand, more attention should be paid to the investigation of often unnecessary or even harmful treatments, and in particular to antibiotic treatment, as well as to the investigation of resistance of pathogens to antimicrobial and antibiotic agents.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. fraudulent, misleading and unfair marketing activities have a negative impact on economic growth, in particular for smes, and on fair competition in the internal market, in particular in the less developed member states most affected by the financial crisis. misleading advertising can take many forms and is most commonly fraud involving company newsletters, payment forms, internet domain names and trademark protection, and misleading 'business opportunities', 'work from home' offers or 'get rich quick' schemes. these activities cost eu businesses and consumers billions of euros every year. until now, this activity has been regulated unevenly in the netherlands due to the different transpositions of the misleading and comparative advertising and unfair commercial practices directives. different application of the rules contributes to market fragmentation and creates uncertainty for businesses about enforcement of eu business rules, especially in cross-border cases. i agree that the nra must ensure uniform transposition of the provisions of the directive. there is a need to improve the exchange of information between ngos, to establish or designate national information centres and to establish an eu-wide blacklist of misleading marketing activities and a list of companies that have been repeatedly found guilty of such activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because misleading marketing is an international problem that goes beyond the borders of individual member states and also the eu. this is a problem that leads to market failures and distortions of competition, as it hinders businesses from making informed and therefore efficient choices, while also having a negative impact on consumers, who have to pay more for products and services. a coherent approach to the prevention-punishment balance is essential, but until there is a clear legal framework to address this problem, law enforcement will continue to be reluctant to act decisively. fraudulent, misleading and unfair marketing activities have a negative impact on economic growth and fair competition in the internal market, in particular in the less developed member states most affected by the financial crisis. in order to prevent the activities of dishonest companies, national enforcement authorities should cooperate more closely with providers whose services are used by misleading marketing operators, such as banks, telephone companies, postal service providers and recovery agencies, in particular by strengthening the exchange of information. at the same time, effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties should be established, as, for example, sanctions can have a preventive effect. organisations responsible for registering companies, such as chambers of commerce and industry, should also be more active in identifying suspicious behaviour and preventing fraudulent activities.
in writing. - i supported the proposal to combat as far as possible misleading marketing and advertising by, for example, publishers of business catalogues or dishonest merchants sending invoices for services that are allegedly not ordered. we often encounter misleading invoices for services that companies claim to have already ordered, when in fact they have not. for example, they are forced to pay for the inclusion of contact information in fake or irrelevant directories. in addition, fake invoices may be sent to companies on behalf of various organisations such as chambers of commerce and crafts or patent offices. small businesses are the most affected. victims often feel ashamed and do not report such activity to law enforcement authorities, but simply pay. the losses amount to billions of euros across the european union. this requires the establishment or designation of national focal points to which businesses and other victims can report. these centres would maintain a database to record all types of fraudulent activity. a blacklist of companies engaged in fraudulent activities should also be established to prevent them from participating in public procurement and receiving eu support. in addition, there is a need to improve the investigation and prosecution of misleading marketing activities and to involve europol more closely in these activities.
in writing. − voted in favour of this ep resolution, which emphasises the negative impact of misleading advertising on the eu internal market. advertising is an integral part of the flow of information and unfortunately sometimes the information it provides misleads consumers by providing them with services they have not requested or by providing services that are allegedly free of charge, which ultimately imposes additional costs on the consumer. the different approaches adopted by the member states to this issue, which lead to problems of different regulation, require preventive and information measures, such as promoting consumer education, improving research on misleading marketing, and finally, seeking wider cooperation outside the eu to tackle misleading marketing.
for the efd group it is very important that the european parliament has finally drawn attention to problems which, in their economic consequences, are far more dangerous than individual criminal offences. corrupt agreements enslave tens and hundreds of thousands of taxpayers, undermining confidence in the state's duty to be equally fair to all citizens. the european union's aid policy has not only provided member states with the means to restructure their economies, but also provided the conditions for dishonest individuals to embezzle these funds through various corrupt arrangements. i have said and will say that it is necessary for member states to set up a comprehensive system for the protection of whistleblowers. it is also necessary to extend the possibilities for reporting corruption cases, to establish confidential channels for reporting corruption cases. it is essential that the results of public procurement can be monitored and evaluated by the public. i believe that the new european public prosecutor's office should also be given sufficiently broad powers to combat corruption and money laundering. i would also call for the offences related to money laundering to be subject to proportionate counter-sanctions. but, my friends, we will achieve nothing unless we tackle corruption in the public sector in a fundamental way. how can this be done? 1.the economic operators found guilty of corruption, money laundering or organised crime by final judgments shall be prohibited from participating in public procurement in the member states of the european union. 2. persons convicted of the same offences shall be prevented from standing for election to public office and from holding office. 3. banking secrecy must be abolished and all tax-free zones in the european union abolished.
thank you for the study, which once again shows that there is no social tourism. we must put an end once and for all to the populist opposition of the citizens of the european union, which is an affront to the dignity of our working people, from whatever country in the european union they may come. citizens move within the european union for better job search or self-realisation opportunities and international work experience, and certainly not to benefit from other countries' social security systems and live off benefits. i have a lot of contact with people in lithuania who have gone to work in other eu countries, and they really go for work, not for benefits. the results of the study show that citizens from other eu countries contribute more to the budget of the host country through taxes and social security contributions than they actually benefit from social security because of the arrival of workers. i am currently preparing a report on social protection for all, including the self-employed, and therefore call on the commission to review the social security coordination regulation and draw the attention of the member states to the fact that, in order to limit the abuse of social benefits, discriminatory social protection restrictions should not be applied to jewish workers. in conclusion, mr commissioner, i would suggest that you consider whether another study should be carried out to assess the impact of emigration on the sustainability of social protection systems in countries where a large proportion of the working population leaves. the reduction in the number of taxpayers does not reduce the number of people in need of social assistance.
the hope that we will sign an association agreement with ukraine in vilnius is very much alive. there is very little left to do the president of ukraine has all the authority to make a decision that will not leave any obstacles to the signing of the agreement. julia tymoshenko should be allowed to go abroad for medical treatment. it would be just and humane. this is a condition for signing the association agreement. the next presidential election will be held in georgia on sunday. we expect the leaders of this country to show good will and make decisions that will remove any reproaches against georgia for selective justice. the european union has done a lot on its part, but we cannot make decisions for the leaders of ukraine or georgia. it is their mission and responsibility that can become a historic victory, and failure to act, to make the decisions that are expected, a historic mistake.
the digital economy agenda, the internet single market, innovation and services in cyberspace are indeed a very important thing for the future. discussions on this subject are welcome. however, i would draw attention to the second item on the agenda for the meeting: 'economic growth, competitiveness, job creation'. these are the main issues facing the community countries today. unemployment is a spectre that threatens europe today. progress on the youth employment initiative is too limited and does not yet provide any basis for its full operation. economic growth and job creation are still pretty words with no real meaning. banks and other financial institutions have not yet been willing to lend to smes. business regulation remains rather cumbersome, burdensome and costly. the unemployment rate for young people in the european union is currently over 23% and is twice as high as the unemployment rate for adults. in some countries, this figure exceeds 50%, resulting in billions of euros lost to the european union market each year. the european economy and competitiveness are at risk. these numbers are just an illustration of what i said. in various ways, we must address the central problem of our day. bold, unexpected decisions and proposals can stir the market. that's what i want.
in writing. the economic and financial crisis has left europe's labour market in a very tense situation, with unemployment rates continuing to rise, particularly among young people, and social exclusion widening. in these circumstances, the fight against unemployment must be one of the main policy priorities of the european union and the member states. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission and the member states to ensure that its policy guidelines and country-specific recommendations continue to provide the highest possible level of social protection, which is an integral part of the european social model, and that labour market reforms aim at quality employment, better management of social risks, greater inclusion of vulnerable groups in the labour market, reduction of poverty at work, promotion of gender equality. it is also necessary to promote health and safety at work, strengthen the rights of workers with non-standard employment contracts and provide for greater social protection for the self-employed. i would like to reiterate that the situation of unemployed young people is particularly serious and that we need to take action as soon as possible, for example by concluding a european pact for youth employment, which would start implementing the measures long agreed, as well as allocating additional funds and developing new measures to tackle youth unemployment by reducing the number of young people not in employment, education or training (neets) and youth poverty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation amending the regulation laying down rules for the monitoring of trade between the community and third countries in drug precursors. the aim of the proposal is to prevent the use of medicinal products containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine for the illicit manufacture of methamphetamine by introducing controls on these products when they are traded between the union and third countries, without preventing their free movement. unfortunately, drugs containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine that are used to treat flu symptoms or allergies are being used illegally to produce methamphetamine. they have not been subject to export, import or transit controls until now. the fact that they are not subject to the regulation prevents member states from seizing consignments of medicinal products that are clearly destined for illicit use. i therefore support the proposal to include this type of medicinal product in the list of controlled substances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because its main objective is to fill the legal vacuum of the regulation. the proposal lays down rules for the monitoring of trade in precursors of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances between the community and third countries. the regulation will cover medicines containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine used to treat colds, flu symptoms or allergies, which are still used illegally to produce methamphetamine. the exemption from the regulation on medicinal products prevents member states from easily seizing or detaining consignments of medicinal products containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine that are clearly intended for illicit use. in this case, medicinal products would be included in the definition of scheduled substances and a new category of substances would be created in order to allow a slightly better adaptation of the controls to be carried out on scheduled substances.
in writing. − trade in precursors of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances between the community and third countries is subject to strict monitoring rules, and controlled precursors are included in the official list. unfortunately, the current legal framework does not cover medicines. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need to tighten controls in this area because some medicines, such as those used to treat influenza or the flu, contain ephedrine or pseudoephedrine which can be used to produce narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. a clearer regulation of this area and a systematic approach to the monitoring of trade in precursors would lead to better results in the fight against illicit drug trafficking.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. as is well known, precursors of drugs and psychotropic substances are chemicals that are often used in various industrial processes (for example, in the production of plastics, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, perfumes or detergents). however, they may also be misused for the illicit manufacture of drugs. these substances are often stolen or bought for illicit activities. despite the existence of a licensing and registration system under the existing legal framework to monitor trade in precursors in the european union, the control measures applied are not sufficiently rigorous. i agree with the rapporteur that, in order to prevent the illicit acquisition of precursors of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, it is necessary to strengthen the registration rules, to establish a european database on precursors of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and to focus more on monitoring the trade in acetic anhydride, which is the main ingredient in the production of heroin.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on drug precursors. precursors chemicals in various products (drugs, perfumes and plastics) that can be used illegally to make drugs. the proposal aims to strengthen controls on these chemicals in the internal market and at eu border customs. the new rules will provide for the early prevention of illicit drug production. i support the power of customs authorities to confiscate medicinal products containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine where they have reasonable grounds to suspect that they may be used for illegal purposes. it is also important to strengthen the rules governing the activities of companies using acetic anhydride in the eu for the production of heroin. enterprises using acetic anhydride industrially should register with the authorities. it is also important to establish a european trader database to facilitate the collection of data on seized and detained consignments.
in writing. − if you have acetic anhydride is legally used in the production of plastics, textiles, paints, photochemicals, perfumes, explosives and aspirin, but may be used illegally in the production of heroin, amphetamines and cocaine. it is the main precursor of heroin, which accounts for the highest number of drugrelated deaths in the eu. i agreed that the problem of the illicit acquisition of precursors of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances should be tackled. better monitoring of trade in acetic anhydride is necessary: the requirements to be applied are more stringent, the end-users of acetic anhydride will have to register with the competent authorities, whereas only producers and operators handling acetic anhydride have been registered so far. it is necessary to strengthen the rules for registration, i.e. to strengthen the definitions used and to establish more harmonised conditions and/or requirements for registration, while ensuring a certain flexibility to adapt the categories to changing circumstances. it is necessary to establish a european database on precursors of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, containing information on precursors seized in the eu, and to establish a list of all operators and users of precursors licensed or registered in the eu. the proposal allows the legal marketing and use of acetic anhydride without creating any unnecessary administrative burden for the companies. this also allows the competent authorities to monitor trade flows more closely in order to identify and stop illegal acquisitions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the adoption of an e-justice action plan 2014-2018. the first european e-justice action plan was implemented in 2009-2013 and aimed to improve access to legal and judicial information and judicial and administrative processes for both citizens and lawyers. e. justice has an important role to play in improving mutual trust and understanding and thus in consolidating the mutual recognition of judicial and administrative decisions, which is one of the fundamental principles of the eu legal system. e-justice systems reduce the costs of judicial and administrative processes, in particular by automating the exchange of information, the service of documents and the translation of procedural documents. i support calls for member states and the commission to reduce cross-border red tape by increasing the exchange of documents electronically, using videoconferencing and better linking judicial and administrative registers. appropriate attention should be paid to the development of e-learning tools for judicial authorities and the possibility should be provided for to fund successful european and national e-justice projects that would bring real european added value to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to make justice and the legal system more accessible to citizens and to improve the understanding between lawyers by providing electronic means of information and cooperation. the e-justice portal was launched in 2010 and now it is time to decide on the e-justice action plan for the period 2014-2018. it is important that the plan is drawn up on the basis of the principle of open access and that all member states are encouraged to participate. e. justice has an important role to play in improving mutual trust and understanding and thus in consolidating the mutual recognition of judicial and administrative decisions, which is one of the fundamental principles of the eu legal system. the importance of e-justice in providing multilingual standard forms is recognised, thereby reducing cross-border red tape and creating a genuine european judicial culture, as it incorporates online judicial training tools and serves as a knowledge management and linking tool. it is important to increase the use of electronic applications, electronic submission of documents, videoconferencing and the linking of judicial and administrative registers to further reduce the costs of judicial and quasi-judicial proceedings. the eu justice programme 2014-2020 should provide for the possibility to fund successful european and national e-justice projects that would bring real european added value to citizens.
in writing. − i supported this proposal because the eu's civil law instruments and international procedures are relatively little known and because 73% of citizens believe that additional measures are needed to make civil law more accessible to them in other member states. e-justice is a means of improving access to legal and judicial information and judicial and administrative processes for both citizens and lawyers. e. justice has an important role to play in improving mutual trust and understanding and thus in consolidating the mutual recognition of judicial and administrative decisions, which is one of the fundamental principles of the eu legal system. the eu justice programme 2014-2020 should provide for the possibility to fund successful european and national e-justice projects that would bring real european added value to citizens. the time has therefore come to decide on an e-justice action plan 2014-2018 and this e-justice action plan should be drawn up on the basis of the principle of open access and all member states should be encouraged to participate.
in writing. − i support the ep resolution on the e-justice action plan 2014-2018. e. justice is a tool that improves access to legal and judicial information, facilitates access to judicial and administrative processes and contributes to reducing red tape. projects such as e-justice or the codex have helped to reduce the cost of judicial and administrative procedures and to make eu civil law easier and simpler for eu citizens. by supporting such projects, we contribute to the development of a european judicial culture and to the legal literacy of eu citizens.
the security of the member states of the european union, and the security of europe, depends in particular on neighbourhood. neighbourhood, understood as agreement and cooperation for the common good, is different from what is understood by one's neighbourhood, being next to each other, and is in fact competition, who will influence whom and who will control what. we have an old neighbour in central and eastern europe who has always been and still is dominating. the independence of central europe, and even more so the friendly relations with the eastern european countries which want to be closer to the european union, irritate and anger this neighbour who still thinks he must rule and dominate. the european union's policy on the eastern neighbourhood and all other energy links and relations should therefore be calm and firm, because this is the basis of our security. in the hope that this great geographical neighbour, who really feels like a rival and treats the european union as an unpleasant and dangerous rival, that this geographical neighbour will begin to understand the benefits of a different neighbourhood and the benefits of cooperation. this requires patience, a calm and firm policy, no conciliation and no attempt to appease a geographical neighbour who is unwisely angry.
in writing. mr president, the european union's common foreign and security policy is a major challenge in the face of rapid political change around the world. africa or the middle east are examples. for these reasons, the european union must adopt a new and more credible foreign policy to safeguard the interests and positions of the member states at international level. therefore, the common international policy should not replace the policies of the member states but should coordinate and provide diplomatic support. only by applying this rule consistently and collectively will we be able to achieve our strategic objectives and increase the european union's importance in international politics. for these reasons, we are concerned by the continuing lack of a clear strategy for relations with the rest of the world. as a result, the objectives of the lisbon treaty have not yet been achieved in this area. in the context of the council report, it is worth noting the development of 'strategic partnerships' as a form of cooperation between the european union and existing and emerging global leaders. however, it should be borne in mind that this idea requires clear criteria for the european union's position in international politics. there is another important aspect of the european union's international policy that deserves attention. this is the european union's neighbourhood policy, which is currently in a difficult situation. it should be given a higher priority and its importance should be enhanced, as it will help to ensure political stability in the european union's immediate neighbourhood.
madam president, the document that we are discussing today will guide our environmental policy for the next six years. whereas previous action programmes focused more on the protection of the environment, the current document – through its title, ‘living well, within the limits of our planet’ – reflects the principle of the integration of environmental issues into other policy areas. one of the principles of our future economic models is a resource-efficient europe. this means that we must perceive our environment and its protection not as restricting the economy but as offering further opportunities: stricter rules on waste management; the protection of natural resources, including drinking water; energy saving and efficiency; renewable energy. we can look to some non-eu members for good examples as regards technologies. we should look at environmental policy from the right angle: not in terms of increased costs, but rather as presenting new opportunities for business, including the creation of new jobs and new eco-industries, based on sustainable practices. this document does not set goals in a strict sense; rather it allows the european union to stay among the frontrunners in global environmental politics. therefore, i urge the commission to present proposals for swifter implementation of the programme and for achieving its goals. at the same time, i hope that representatives of my country, lithuania, will successfully complete the negotiations on the final text of this seventh environmental action programme. i would like to thank the rapporteur, gaston franco, and his colleagues who worked on this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. it should be emphasised that the priorities of the 2014 budget are sustainable growth, competitiveness, job creation and the fight against youth unemployment, as well as the eu's role in the world. we, the members of the european parliament, oppose the council of the european union's proposal to reduce the 2014 eu budget for research, employment and the digital agenda, as these areas are crucial for economic growth, and we propose to allocate an additional €34 million to these areas. we also reject the eu council's proposal to reduce aid to the middle east and refugees by eur 250 million, as ensuring peace and political stability in the middle east is an important part of the eu's foreign policy. we also propose to increase the budget for the eu external border management agency frontex, as it is necessary to provide the necessary resources for the implementation of eurosur as a pan-european border surveillance system. the scheme can help reduce the number of irregular migrants entering the eu and the number of irregular migrants dying at sea. it will also help to prevent transnational crime. compared to the 2013 eu budget, we propose €8.1 billion less for commitments and €4.3 billion less for payments. i also believe that the european parliament and the council should draw up a plan for the transition to single seat seat transport in order to ensure long-term budgetary savings.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the council's position on the 2014 budget is not in line with the political agreement on the multiannual financial perspective 2014-2020 and the european parliament's priorities. in its previous resolutions, the european parliament has expressed the view that the priorities for the 2014 budget are economic and sustainable growth, competitiveness, job creation and the fight against youth unemployment. the council must agree on the budget for the coming year and ensure that commitments and payments are in line with reality and the financing needs in order to allow the timely start of the programmes envisaged. i agree that the budget proposed by the council will not be able to ensure a sufficient and appropriate level of payments in 2014.
in writing. − i voted against the council's proposal to reduce the eu's 2014 budget for research and employment. the parliament proposed that the eu budget for 2014 should be €142.6 billion for commitments (€141.8 billion proposed by the council) and €136.1 billion for payments (€134.8 billion proposed by the council). compared to this year's eu budget, the proposed reduction is €8.1 billion for commitments and €4.3 billion for payments. in areas such as the digital agenda, research, entrepreneurship and youth employment, which contribute to economic growth, i voted against the eu council's proposal to reduce funding by €629 million. i think that additional funding is needed in these areas. i am also convinced that this year's eu budget deficit should not be carried over to the next year. following this vote in plenary, the european parliament and the council of the eu must agree on the future budget within three weeks.
in writing. - i voted for this motion. in 2012, the commission presented a green paper 'sea knowledge 2020: from seabed mapping to ocean forecasting' to contribute to the promotion, development and expansion of the blue economy. the blue economy is crucial to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in maritime-related areas, in particular by combining knowledge and technological innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. by 2020, a single digital map of the seabed of european waters with variable resolution, making ocean-related information accessible to various stakeholders. i agree with the ep that it is essential to ensure the collection, processing and storage of all data relevant to this purpose and to ensure the reliability of the data by standardising their quality and setting the procedures and format for their collection and processing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because knowledge of the marine environment is of the utmost importance for the promotion, development and expansion of the blue economy, the maritime dimension of the europe 2020 strategy, linking technical innovation, sustainable use of resources, competitiveness and job creation. it is important to ensure that the large stock of data available on the marine environment in europe is accessible and that these data are easily accessible in order to maximise resources and to stimulate development, innovation and job creation in the maritime and shipping sectors. fisheries one of the main human activities in the marine environment, which provides food and which is of vital importance, especially for some coastal communities, and is therefore an essential element of an integrated maritime policy, but it is also the sector most affected by the many uses and activities of the marine environment, so that greater access to information on fishing activities can be an incentive to promote sustainable fishing practices, not only from an environmental but also from an economic and social point of view. it was the marine information 2020 initiative that launched an exchange of views on this issue and a public consultation to provide views on the opportunities and challenges of access to marine observation information in europe.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because it is necessary to pay sufficient attention to the importance of the collection, mapping and dissemination of fisheries data and to the usefulness and practical application of these data. it is necessary to promote the availability and accessibility of data, to ensure the efficient collection and compilation of data and to ensure that the processing and interpretation of data is clearly beneficial. a single digital map of the european seabed at variable resolution should be produced by 2020. the digital map will cover a wide range of areas, including information on seabed topography, geology, habitats and ecosystems, and human activities. marine mapping is essential for the safe extraction of any resource. although the lithuanian watershed is not large, its cartographic exploration is poor the mapping carried out at a scale of 1:200 000 and only the part of the watershed between klaipėda and šventa was mapped at a scale of 1:50 000. the state geological maps of the water area drawn up here are intended to be used to solve problems of the coastal and inland industry, to meet the needs of the protection of the territorial economic zone, fisheries, shipping and other environmental protection and natural production. unfortunately, the mapping has been interrupted by a lack of funds. the present report is therefore likely to encourage the development of such work. in addition, the possible developments in the hydrocarbon works sector will require a thorough environmental impact assessment, which in turn can only be done with cartographic data.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the eu currently lacks a horizontal legislative framework to enforce its rights under the world trade organisation (wto) and other international trade agreements. i agree with the rapporteur that we must do more to ensure that the european union's trade rights are respected, to strengthen the eu's credibility and, finally, to convince our trading partners to respect the rules of conduct laid down in trade agreements. i believe that the range of trade policy instruments available to the european union should be extended to cover at least the services sector, as the services sector is a fast-growing sector of the economy. the systematic and structured exchange of information between parliament and the commission must also be ensured, avoiding a confusing decision-making process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the european union's rights to apply and enforce international trade rules. the eu does not have a common legal framework for the enforcement of union rights under international trade agreements. the purpose of the draft regulation is to establish rules and procedures to ensure that, in the event of a third country's breach of international trade rules, the union can effectively exercise its rights to suspend concessions to parties in order to find a satisfactory solution, adjust them and adjust other commitments in trade relations with third countries. i agree with the rapporteur's suggestions to take retaliatory action only in the event of an emergency. it is also important to ensure a systematic exchange of information between the commission and parliament, without distorting the decision-making process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the committee's proposal as the proposed measure aims to ensure better enforcement of eu trade rights, enhance the eu's credibility and ultimately convince our trading partners to abide by the rules of conduct set out in trade agreements. this proposal is also part of the strategy of the european union to open up new markets and brings its decision-making process into line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − in a changing, multipolar world, where some states experience economic difficulties and others acquire new economic characteristics, and where security challenges of all kinds are constantly emerging, fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights, social justice and the fight against poverty must be strongly defended. the eu must ensure that these values and the rights of its citizens are protected worldwide. this requires coherent cooperation between member states, between states and the eu institutions, and a unified approach in multilateral international formats, as well as speaking with one voice with third countries. i believe that the eu must not only strengthen its unity and effectiveness, the cfsp and the cfsp instruments, but also continue to act in pursuit of the eu's strategic objectives, starting with the transatlantic partnership, economic and political development in its eastern and southern neighbours, and the middle east peace process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the european maritime and fisheries fund, which sets out an ambitious objective to end overfishing and to put the european fisheries sector on a sustainable and profitable business path. i think it is particularly important to stress the need to provide more support for data collection and the development of controls and to stop encouraging the growth of fishing capacity. in particular, given that the european union's annual subsidies to the fisheries sector currently amount to some eur 836 million for structural measures and eur 156 million for fisheries partnership agreements, only eur 50 million is allocated to research, data collection and the provision of management and control measures. effective data collection and control are essential elements for the management of fisheries and therefore the amount allocated to data collection and control should be doubled. secondly, there is a high prevalence of overfishing in eu waters. in some regions, the level of eu fishing capacity is exceeded by two or three times. currently, 39% of the assessed stocks in the atlantic and 88% in the mediterranean are over-exploited. it should be borne in mind that this state of fish stocks can cost more than eur 3 billion per year in lost catches. we in the european parliament therefore oppose support for fleet renewal and measures to maintain or even increase excess fishing capacity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a european maritime and fisheries fund. the purpose of the proposal is to create a new fund for the eu's maritime and fisheries policies. the commission proposes to set up a new european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) for the period 2014-2020. the fund would finance projects that create new jobs and improve the quality of life in europe's coastal areas. this fund would replace the current european fisheries fund (eff) and various other instruments. the financial package proposed for the period 2014-2020 is eur 6,5 billion. i support the proposals to use the new fund to support innovative projects such as the replacement of fishing nets with more selective fishing gear, to reduce the number of fish being returned to the sea, and the development of new technologies to reduce the environmental impact of fishing and fisheries. at the same time, the emff should allocate sufficient resources for data collection, monitoring and control. i support the s&d group's position that the eu's fisheries policy should be renewed to ensure sustainable fisheries and the recovery of fish stocks.
in writing. − i support the committee's proposal to ensure strict control of fishing activities in order to ensure environmentally and socially sustainable management. i believe that structural support for the fisheries sector is needed to increase its competitiveness and sustainability. investment in improving working conditions and safety, reducing energy consumption, reducing pollution and encouraging the use of less selective tools should also be supported. the strategic role of ports for the competitiveness and sustainability of fishing activities and coastal areas should be taken into account. it is important to increase scientific knowledge on the quantity and quality of resources in order to have access to high-quality scientific advice for all resources marketed in the union. i welcome the focus on the partnership between scientists and fishermen. the fund will support entrepreneurship, innovation, human capital, environmental protection, public health and the insurance of aquaculture resources.
in writing. − the eu's fisheries policy priority sustainable fisheries, based primarily on scientific data on resources. i am therefore pleased that this position is reflected in the document we have adopted today and that we have succeeded in rejecting previous proposals to allocate a higher proportion of support to measures which do not guarantee the sustainability of resources.
in writing. - i support the draft regulation submitted. i believe that the allocation of the fund's support to the member states should take account in particular of the level of employment and production in the fisheries processing sector. in order to ensure economic and environmental sustainability, there is a need to increase support for the replacement of old vessels by newer ones without increasing fishing capacity and opportunities. it is also necessary to ensure that this measure does not become purely declaratory but is effectively implemented. particular attention shall be paid to the renewal of small-capacity fishing fleets. in order to protect operators in this sector from financially risky activities, the duration of the aid must correspond to the duration of the commitment. in addition, the processing sector should also be made eligible for support through grants.
in writing. - i support this resolution on the warsaw climate change conference. the aim of the conference is to ensure progress on the durban platform and to prepare for the conclusion of a global legally binding agreement by 2015. at the un climate change conference in durban, south africa, an agreement was reached that provided for international climate change strategies by nearly 200 countries. the eu is working to put the plan into practice. 90% of the world's emissions are still emitted by developing countries, which have not made any commitments to reduce emissions under the current kyoto protocol. a new green climate fund was created in durban, which will act as one of the main channels for distributing the $100 billion that the developed world has committed to raise annually by 2020 to help developing countries implement their climate change mitigation plans. i agree with the suggestions that the new agreement should include ambitious and sufficient greenhouse gas reduction targets for all polluters and the endorsement of appropriate policy measures to achieve these targets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because climate change is an unavoidable and possibly irreversible threat to human communities, biodiversity and the planet, and therefore must be addressed by all countries at international level. the widely recognised global risks and global costs associated with current emissions require not only commitments but also the political will of all actors to meet those commitments. as governments have a collective responsibility to respond adequately to the climate change challenges facing humanity and the planet, it is essential that they receive the support of all relevant actors in their countries, including citizens and businesses. climate change poses an extremely serious threat to a number of human rights, including the right to food, water and sanitation, and to the right to development in general, and the application of climate-related innovation in the energy and industrial sectors would be seen as an asset for the european union, as it would be the first to enter the growing international market for energy-related products and services. sustainable innovation in the energy sector (at both production and consumer levels) is helping to create jobs, boost economic growth, increase energy independence and lead to a cleaner world, mitigate climate change and ensure energy security.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document because it aims to ensure the necessary progress of the durban platform, to prepare for the preparation of commitments and the conclusion of a global legally binding agreement by 2015. an agreement was reached in durban that provided for international climate change strategies by almost 200 countries. the eu is working to put the plan into practice. the largest share of all global emissions is emitted by developing countries, which have not made any commitments to reduce emissions under the current kyoto protocol. a new green climate fund was created in durban, which will act as one of the main channels for distributing the $100 billion that the developed world has committed to raise annually by 2020 to help developing countries implement their climate change mitigation plans. i believe that all polluters need to commit to ambitious and sufficient greenhouse gas reduction targets and adopt appropriate policy measures to achieve these targets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering. organised crime, corruption and money laundering have already become a global problem and require an adequate response. there are about 3600 transnational criminal organisations operating in the european union. the typical tools of organised crime already include not only violence and intimidation but also corruption. money laundering, in turn, is often seen as both a typical activity of organised crime and a phenomenon closely linked to corruption, tax fraud and tax evasion. thus, organised crime, corruption and money laundering, although different phenomena, often have interconnections and therefore require targeted action. we in the european parliament are in favour of creating a uniform and coherent legal framework to tackle the economic basis of organised crime and believe that police and judicial cooperation must be strengthened both at eu and international level. a more efficient and less complex system of public administration would allow for more responsible policymaking, a faster and more reliable criminal justice process, a more transparent banking system and more.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which provides for measures to combat organised crime, corruption and money laundering. ep the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering was set up in 2012 to investigate the impact of the mafia on the eu economy and to propose measures to enable the eu to combat this crime at international, eu and national level. the committee's figures show that vat evasion costs the eu €100 million a year, 880 000 workers are in forced labour, there are at least 20 million cases of petty corruption in the eu public sector and corruption costs 1% of eu gdp. i support the action plan foreseen by the committee for 2014-2019 to encourage the eu to focus on the sources of income and financial assets of organised crime. the seizure of assets acquired through criminal means could be used for social purposes, and the fight against match-fixing, corruption in sport and vote-buying is necessary. the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office is a very important step.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which sets out a package of measures and initiatives that need to be taken to combat organised crime, money laundering and corruption effectively. these phenomena have been increasing in the european union over the past few decades due to the openness of borders and the opportunities offered by new technologies, and they require effective measures to combat them at both national and eu level, as well as at international level. the usual means of action of organised crime already include not only violence and the expropriation of property, but also corruption. money laundering is closely linked to corruption, tax fraud and tax evasion. the european parliament therefore calls for enhanced cooperation between the law enforcement authorities of the member states, europol, eurojust, the european anti-fraud office (olaf) and the european network and information security agency. the ep calls on the commission to adopt as soon as possible a directive on the confiscation of proceeds of crime. bank secrecy and tax havens should be abolished in the fight against corruption and money laundering. it is important that member states themselves implement the proposed measures internally, pursuing a strong policy to combat these crimes. it is also necessary that they cooperate with third countries, as this is the only way to disrupt organised crime networks and prevent them from further developing and establishing themselves in the european union. only by working together and sharing information about criminals and their networks can we protect our citizens and their property.
in writing. - i supported the need to tackle the root causes of organised crime, corruption and money laundering. there are currently almost 4000 transnational criminal organisations operating in the eu. according to the european commission, corruption in the european union amounts to about €120 billion a year. according to the international labour organisation, 880,000 workers in the eu are in forced labour, of whom 270,000 are victims of sexual exploitation, the majority of whom are women. i believe that it is necessary to establish a european public prosecutor's office, to abolish banking secrecy and tax havens, to prevent economic operators convicted of organised and financial crime from participating in public procurement, and to provide for criminal liability for fraud in sport. it is necessary to eliminate the root causes of trafficking in human beings and forced labour, to establish, where appropriate, the legal liability of legal persons in cases of financial crime, to improve the methods of tracing and recovering the proceeds of organised crime, to put an end to cases of tax evasion and avoidance, to increase the transparency of public administration by providing greater access to documents for the public and, where necessary, to lay down specific rules to prevent and resolve conflicts of interest, and to establish a transparency register. the most effective means of combating organised crime are strict legal consequences, effective detection and confiscation of the means and proceeds of crime.
in writing. − despite deepening eu integration and a systematic response to many problems, the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering remains a major challenge for eu and national institutions. criminal activity also affects ordinary eu citizens. it is clear that the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering requires better cooperation at international, eu and national levels. the fight against these crimes requires a uniform and coherent legal framework, the promotion of honest business practices by business entities and the establishment of a reliable and transparent banking system. successfully tackling organised crime, corruption and money laundering is essential to improving the opportunities for eu citizens to enjoy the freedoms offered by the internal market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a stronger european neighbourhood policy. the aim of the neighbourhood policy is to strengthen the partnership between the eu and neighbouring countries and societies in order to consolidate democracy, ensure sustainable economic growth and manage international relations. the next eastern partnership summit will take place in vilnius on 28 and 29 november 2013. the eu will seek to initial the association agreements, including the close cooperation and comprehensive free trade agreements with georgia and moldova, at this meeting. it is also important to seek cooperation with armenia, azerbaijan and belarus during the meeting. belarus should use the lithuanian presidency of the council of the eu and the meeting in vilnius as an opportunity to improve relations with the eu. the main objective of the meeting was the signing of the eu-ukraine association agreement on close cooperation and a comprehensive free trade area. i am in favour of concluding the agreement if all the eu's demands are met. i regret the recent trade sanctions imposed by russia on ukrainian exports, and russia should immediately end the economic and political pressure it is exerting on the eastern partnership countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the implementation of the european neighbourhood policy should strengthen the partnership between the eu and neighbouring countries in order to build and consolidate a thriving democracy, ensure sustainable economic growth and manage international relations. a functioning democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law are the key pillars of the eu's partnership with its neighbours. a sound democracy requires a strong and lasting commitment by governments to free and fair elections, freedom of association, expression and assembly, freedom of the press and media, the rule of law, and independent courts. it is also necessary to combat corruption, reform the security and law enforcement sectors and establish democratic control of the armed forces and security forces. the european union's foreign policy must be consistent, i.e. not contradict its internal policies, and avoid double standards. the economic and financial crisis cannot justify a reduction in the union's commitments to its neighbours. the eu should play a more active role in seeking a peaceful resolution of conflicts, including entrenched ones, which currently represent insurmountable obstacles to the development of full-fledged good neighbourly relations and regional cooperation in the eastern and southern partners. it is therefore important for the eu to strengthen cooperation with civil society in neighbouring countries and to provide its support through a range of funding instruments.
in writing. − parliament recommends that the eu council in vilnius sign an association agreement with ukraine if the necessary conditions are met. i believe that the eu must maintain its commitments to its eastern and southern neighbours and reward those countries that are successful in reforming. the eu's neighbourhood policy must be based on the principles of 'support for progress' and 'less support for less progress'. the main problems in the eastern partnership countries are related to the rule of law, the state of democracy, including electoral and judicial systems, and selective justice. until we have solved these problems, we cannot expect these countries to come closer to our systems and political values. i do not support the russian pressure to prevent these countries from working more closely with the eu. the ep regretted the fact that in the run-up to the vilnius summit, pressure of various kinds was being put on the eastern partnership countries, such as the application of trade measures, visa policies, restrictions on the mobility of workers, interference in frozen conflicts, etc. i believe that we need to show strong support for all the eastern partnership countries that have their aspirations and choices linked to europe. the sovereign right of each state to choose political and trade unions and the gradual integration of partner countries into the eu are consistent with the objective of good neighbourly relations with russia. meanwhile, in assessing the progress of the eu's southern neighbours, it is proposed to ensure a successful transition to democracy in these countries and to work more effectively towards social justice and a better quality of life.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy, with its 16 partners, contributes to the creation of a wider area of democracy, economic prosperity and stability. this policy is based on mutual willingness to cooperate and the principle of 'more for more', i.e. the more progress a partner makes and the commitment to strengthening democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and freedoms, the more the eu supports reforms and vice versa. the lithuanian presidency's eastern partnership summit in vilnius could be a very important one. after five years of the partnership, very important and progress-making decisions should be taken. even belarus has a window of opportunity if it is willing to take advantage of it. the countries of europe's southern neighbourhood face major challenges related to democratisation, economic conditions, conflicts and social problems. the eu is contributing to the solution of these problems to the extent possible. at the same time, the responsibility for peace, democratisation, progress in the region and national reforms lies primarily with the partners themselves.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a european semester for the coordination of economic policies. the european semester provides for the coordination of budgetary and economic policies of the eu member states. it is regrettable that in 2012 only 15% of the approximately 400 country-specific recommendations were addressed. it is important to better coordinate the implementation of this measure, taking more account of economic growth, employment, investment and social aspects. i support the proposals outlined to create a competitiveness and convergence instrument to help eu member states mitigate the short-term negative effects of economic reforms. unemployment has a significant bearing on priority investment in education, better financing for small businesses. it is also important to examine the possibility of a minimum unemployment benefit in the euro area. i support greater accountability and transparency for the european stability mechanism and the eurogroup.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is very important to assess the implementation of the priorities and objectives set at eu level, especially in the field of employment and social policy. the fight against unemployment, especially among young people, must be a top policy priority for the european union and the member states, and therefore more eu funds must be used for their intended purpose in implementing all the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular in the areas of growth and employment policies, including policies to combat youth unemployment and long-term unemployment. it is essential to allocate additional funds and develop new measures to tackle youth unemployment by reducing the number of young people out of work, education and training and youth poverty. the european parliament also calls on member states with low labour market participation, in cooperation with the social partners, to actively pursue comprehensive and inclusive labour market measures, such as the provision of training and employment services, and other reforms, the implementation of which would increase opportunities for quality employment, help reconcile work and private life, prevent early exit from the labour market, improve competitiveness and help combat labour market segmentation, and help adapt workers' skills to labour market requirements.
in writing. − i voted on the annual resolution on the european semester. the european semester provides for the coordination of budgetary and economic policies of the eu member states. member states need not only fiscal consolidation but also structural reforms to deliver real, sustainable and socially sustainable growth and increased competitiveness, while taking concrete and urgent action to tackle unacceptably high levels of unemployment, especially among young people. the commission should monitor the consistency of all member states' reports with the europe 2020 objectives, in particular those related to poverty reduction and employment, and closely monitor the interconnections and interdependencies between policy areas. the eu budget, although very modest in absolute and relative terms in relation to the union's economic well-being, provides a high added value as a means of promoting the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, given its role in stimulating investment. the eu youth guarantee and the proposed youth employment initiative should be supported as useful tools to combat the unacceptably high level of youth unemployment. the very low level of funding (from a budgetary point of view) for the youth employment initiative over the entire period of the next mff is a concern and it is necessary to use all available means to reinforce this activity. i believe that the european semester should take greater account of economic growth, employment, investment and social aspects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to discuss migration in the mediterranean region and prevent continuing tragedies. the recent tragic events off the coast of lampedusa have left at least 360 migrants dead and many more missing. at least 20,000 people have died at sea since 1993. there is still a lack of clarity at eu level on the distribution of responsibilities between the various actors involved in providing assistance to ships in distress, as well as on the responsibility for coordinating search and rescue operations. i support the above-mentioned proposals for increased budgetary resources for the european asylum support office (easo) and frontex to assist the vn in cases where they need increased technical and operational assistance at the external borders. also agree rapidly on new rules for monitoring frontex-coordinated operations at sea in order to develop effective and coordinated rescue measures at eu level. i support the proposal to impose strict criminal sanctions on those who facilitate trafficking in human beings into and within the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as there is still a lack of clarity at eu level on the distribution of responsibilities between the various actors involved in providing assistance to ships in distress, as well as on the responsibility for coordinating search and rescue operations. tragedies such as the death of migrants on the island of lampedusa, italy, are set to transform europe, and disasters themselves can only be avoided by coordinated action by eu countries based on solidarity and responsibility. eu countries must adhere firmly to their international obligations to carry out rescue operations at sea and take a more active role in preventing further tragedies. third countries must also comply with their international obligations and prepare for rescue operations at sea. in the future, we need to give priority to bilateral agreements between the eu and transit countries on migration management and we need to continue to tackle the root causes of migration. search and rescue operations should be deployed between spain and cyprus and a working group on migration flows in the mediterranean should be set up. the eu council and the european commission should consider setting up an eu coast guard team. it is necessary to strengthen sanctions against traffickers in human beings and to better coordinate the resources available in the eu, including those of the eu's external border protection agency (frontex) and the european police office (europol), in order to combat trafficking networks and smugglers together with third countries. eu countries must repeal or review all laws that criminalize helping migrants at sea.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the suspension of the eu-us agreement on swift. media reports have revealed that the us national security agency has been illegally accessing the swift database, which records millions of international bank transfers every day. i support calls for a thorough technical investigation into the alleged illegal access of the us authorities to swift servers. it is important that any data exchange agreements with the us be based on a coherent data protection legal framework providing for legally binding standards for the protection of personal data, including standards for information, access to data, erasure of data, as well as for compensation. i support calls to suspend the agreement until it is fully and fully clarified whether any us government entity has unlawfully gained access to financial data covered by the agreement in violation of the agreement. the eu should provide for stricter rules on the protection of personal data and consider the human rights implications of any future alternative data exchange system.
in writing. - i abstained because i have to admit that this is a heavy burden for the national budgets of the member states of the european union. the commission shall provide the european parliament with all available information on when and how these increased national contributions will be transferred from the member states' coffers to the union budget. the commission must indicate to the european parliament the real impact of these increased gni contributions on the balancing of member states' budgets in 2013 or 2014, if any. only then would it be possible to speak of accepting the proposal.
in writing. - i think this is an emergency. the cash shortage problem will not be solved. it's like a shovel on a hole. the deficit problem must be solved urgently. but it should not be placed on the shoulders of ordinary citizens. the member states are not in a position to solve the problems that have arisen with their own resources. they shall not be held responsible for any failure in the management and implementation of the budget in the preceding year. i think the deficit needs to be covered by other resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the previous eu environment action programme expired at the end of july 2012. it is therefore indeed time to agree on a new common framework for 2020 and to propose an ambitious and realistic vision for 2050, in addition to the active actions to be launched at rio+20. there are still many problems related to excessive depletion of natural resources, degradation of ecosystems, energy consumption, pollution, waste, health risks or climate change. but at the same time, the biggest challenge is to maintain or improve the living conditions of people in europe and the world. in times of economic crisis and austerity, it could be risky to focus on environmental policy, as it would be seen as a secondary priority or a constraint and a brake on economic growth and employment. however, it seems more sensible to replace this short-term and divisive vision with an effective combination of environmental information and economic and industrial issues, bringing together all actors in innovative activities that promote progress. we need an economy that uses less or better energy and raw materials, that produces and consumes smartly, that avoids waste, and that controls emissions and waste, while reducing the negative impact on the environment. educating, informing and training citizens, enhancing their contribution to the environment in their daily lives, promoting civic engagement and access to justice in environmental matters - these are the objectives that the new eu programme must also pursue.
in writing. − i abstained from the vote because the proposals put forward are questionable and, in my view, some of them are intended to impose a disproportionate burden.
in writing. − in the light of scientific progress and new data, it is important to clarify safety standards for the protection of humans from radiation. however, given that exposure to ionising radiation can also lead to emergency situations, it is important that no lower standards are imposed in third countries from which radioactivity can reach the eu in the event of similar hazards.
in writing. − in a changing, multipolar world, where some states experience economic difficulties and others acquire new economic characteristics, and where security challenges of all kinds are constantly emerging, fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights, social justice and the fight against poverty must be strongly defended. the eu must ensure that these values and the rights of its citizens are protected worldwide. this requires coherent cooperation between member states, between states and the eu institutions, and a unified approach in multilateral international formats and a single voice with third countries. i believe that the eu must not only strengthen its unity and effectiveness, the cfsp and the cfsp instruments, but also continue to act in pursuit of the eu's strategic objectives, starting with the transatlantic partnership, economic and political development in its eastern and southern neighbours, and the middle east peace process.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as a relevant, stable and consistent system is essential for investment, innovation and competition, and therefore requires a periodic review of the eu's regulatory framework for electronic communications. the objectives of the review are to provide consumers with comprehensive information on internet speed, to promote effective and sustainable competition as a driver of investment, to increase competition in the high-speed broadband market, to ensure a stable and sustainable investment framework, to ensure a harmonised, consistent application. i believe that consumer confidence in the internal market needs to be strengthened by measures to improve the protection of personal data and the security of electronic communications. this review should be based on broad consultation with all stakeholders and a thorough analysis of all issues. all the problems identified in the notification should be addressed by a comprehensive review of the whole system, rather than of individual parts of it. the european parliament's position to pursue a consistent review of the entire eu regulatory framework for telecommunications in force, after a thorough analysis of all issues and in broad consultation with all stakeholder groups, is to be welcomed. the eu regulatory framework for electronic communications needs to be changed in a consistent and systematic way by reviewing existing directives.
in writing. − the internal market for electronic communications is still not complete. electronic communications are developing very rapidly, but the field faces a number of administrative obstacles at eu level. to remain competitive, the eu must encourage investment in telecommunications infrastructure and ensure that the end-user benefits. i believe that by supporting this report we are encouraging everyone to engage in a more active debate and to contribute to creating a favourable and competitive environment for investment.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − i congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent outcome of the negotiations on the future 'erasmus+' programme for science, education, youth and sport. and this is the result we have been advocating in the committee on employment and social affairs from the outset. i am pleased that we have succeeded in forging a clearer programme structure, with clearly identifiable sub-programmes for each group of learners involved in the cycle of research and education, a separation of youth activities, and a clearer allocation of the programme budget from the outset. in the committee on employment and social affairs we stressed the importance of giving greater emphasis to vocational training and adult education in the programme. the crucial role of vocational training and education is widely recognised in achieving many of the europe 2020 objectives. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 of the financial regulation). we therefore need to increase the number of adults in education in the light of the demographic ageing of european society, which inevitably requires that adults who have received early education continuously update their personal and professional skills and abilities. so i really congratulate you once again on the adoption of such a programme, erasmus plus.
for the efd group we welcome the agreement reached in november in the conciliation committee. i also welcome the fact that it was under the lithuanian presidency that the new 2014 budget of the european union was agreed in good time. there will always be those who think he could have been better, and there will always be those who say he's bad enough. but i'm sure we're headed in the right direction. the budget for the next year focuses on the priorities of economic growth, job creation, innovation and research. i would perhaps be a little wary of budgetary provisions to cover the losses of some european union countries in the event of natural disasters. there are other funds for that and it should not be at the expense of the budget. i support the possibilities in the budget to support job creation for young people and support for small and medium-sized enterprises. and, dear ones, let's be sure that a euro that's been put in here on time from the budget can be returned at ten euros. this is the path we should take in trying to overcome the european economic plague of the 21st century, unemployment.
i would like to congratulate everyone on the final agreement on the budget of the european union for the next six years. it's been a long and difficult process, and of course not all parties are satisfied that there's enough money for all areas. but i want to be pleased that the negotiators in my country, lithuania, have been able to find the most important common ground. it is very important for the european union that our wish, as the european parliament, to simplify the administration of funds and to make the redistribution of funds between the funds more flexible has been taken into account. this will help to achieve complexity and more efficient project delivery. it is also good that there is also additional money to be made available for youth unemployment, although of course this should be seen in a complex way and such a one-off injection may not be the ultimate solution to the problem. and i also want to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues who understand the importance of nuclear safety in the european union and have given their support and encouragement to the closure of unsafe nuclear power plants.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. over the next seven years, the eu budget provides for €960 billion in commitments and €908 billion in payments. it is important to note that in order to maximise the efficiency of the use of funds, it will be possible to reallocate unused eu funds not only between years but also between individual lines of budget expenditure. in other words, unused commitments from different areas or years will be available for the promotion of youth employment, research, the erasmus programme and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). we in the european parliament are in favour of a multiannual eu budget without deficits, so that the experience of last year and this year, when the european commission lacked the funds to meet its financial commitments, is not repeated.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the eu's multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, which provides for €960 billion for commitments and €908 billion for payments over this period. in the political agreement on the long-term eu budget reached in june 2013, the european parliament achieved the main objectives set: to reallocate unused eu funds not only between years but also between individual lines of expenditure, in order to spend all funds as efficiently as possible; to review the eu budget in 2016 in the light of the economic situation at that time. in addition, the eu budget deficit was eliminated, as eu countries eventually agreed to allocate the remaining €3.9 billion to cover unpaid bills. it is important that the eu council agreed to parliament's request to set up a high-level working group on the issue of own resources, as the current system is too inconsistent due to the different exemptions, different sources of revenue and too high a dependence on national budgets.
in writing. −i voted in favour of the eu's multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, which provides for a spending ceiling of 960 billion over the next seven years. although the member states agreed to it in february, parliament postponed the vote until the conditions it had set were met. meps sought greater flexibility in the allocation of funds, as well as to address the shortcomings of previous years and to discuss in depth the reform of the eu's own resources. the multiannual financial framework sets ceilings on the amount the eu can spend each year. the agreement reached will provide for a loan of eur 960 billion over the next seven years. the european parliament has achieved its main objectives. unused eu funds will be allowed to be reallocated not only between years but also between individual lines of expenditure, in order to spend each euro as efficiently as possible. another achievement of meps the eu's multiannual budget will be reviewed in 2016 in the light of the economic situation at the time. it also envisages that in future the eu's multiannual budget will be aligned with the political cycle of the eu institutions, so that it is not seven years but five. parliament decided not to question the ceilings set by the member states. the exchange parties committed to provide for their review in 2016.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation. it is welcome that the eu's multiannual financial programme for 2014-2020 has finally been agreed after many months of negotiations and that the essential demands of the european parliament have finally been duly taken into account. it is good to see that lithuania will receive increased funding, which will allow the proper implementation of the planned projects, especially in the energy sector. it is worth noting that the european parliament's voice has finally been heard and it has managed to win a decisive voice in the debate on the various multiannual eu programmes. in addition, in order to make the most of each euro, it is possible to reallocate unused eu funds not only between years but also between individual lines of expenditure. i support the proposals to review the eu's multiannual budget in 2016 in the light of the real economic situation at the time. i believe that in the future the duration of the eu's multiannual budget should be directly linked to the political cycle of the eu institutions.
in writing. − i support this document, which defines the main functions of the eu institutions in ensuring budgetary discipline and the proper implementation of financial legislation. i also add to the regret expressed in the document that, despite the entry into force of the lisbon treaty in 2009, the eu council does not ensure proper cooperation with the european parliament.
in writing. − in particular, increased transparency and the proper implementation of democratic procedures are necessary to ensure budgetary discipline, to improve the functioning of the annual budgetary procedure and the cooperation of the institutions on budgetary matters, and to ensure sound financial management. it is essential that due account be taken of the role and powers of parliament under the treaty of lisbon. it is worth noting that the long and laborious process of negotiations at interinstitutional level and its outcome have raised serious doubts as to the proper implementation of the new mff provisions of the lisbon treaty. to overcome these shortcomings, we must ensure a democratic and transparent budgetary process throughout. the eu must have a budget that is forward-looking, flexible and transparent. only such budget support will promote growth, create decent jobs and close the gap between the eu's political commitments and budgetary resources.
in writing. − i have approved an increase in commitment appropriations (eur 150 million) under heading 1b of the multiannual financial framework (mff) to address certain issues relating to the final outcome of the negotiations on the mff 2014-2020 affecting france, italy and spain. the most appropriate way to help these member states is to increase the european social fund (esf). the bulk of this additional eur 150 million will be covered by the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument (eur 134 million). this amount is intended to increase the appropriations for the european social fund by allocating them to france, italy and spain, as the member states most affected, to address the problems of youth employment, poverty and social exclusion. it was agreed during the mff negotiations at the european council meeting of 27-28 june 2013. as the current allocations in the eu budget are already fully used up, the commission proposes to increase the european social fund (esf) allocations for 2013 for these three member states. the increase of eur 150 million in commitment appropriations will be covered by a margin under the expenditure ceiling of title 1b (eur 16 million) and by the use of the flexibility instrument (eur 134 million) for this specific action. the proposed amounts will be added to the existing esf programmes.
in writing. - i support draft amending budget no 7 as presented. it should be noted that france, italy and spain face particularly serious problems of youth employment, poverty and social exclusion. in view of these circumstances and the commitments undertaken, financial assistance should be granted to those states. it should be noted that the current allocations in the eu budget are already fully used. i therefore support the proposal that the most appropriate way to help france, italy and spain is to increase the european social fund by mobilising the flexibility instrument.
in writing. − i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 8 for 2013 (db 8/2013), which concerns an increase of payment appropriations (eur 3,9 billion) under expenditure categories 1a, 1b, 2, 3a, 3b and 4 of the multiannual financial framework (mff) in order to meet the remaining needs by the end of the year, to fulfil legal obligations arising from past and current commitments, to avoid financial penalties and to enable beneficiaries to receive the funds provided for under approved union policies, for which the corresponding commitment appropriations were approved by the european parliament and the council in the budget of the previous year. the adoption of the full 2013 payment ceiling will be achieved by the adoption of the full 2013 payment ceiling. this would avoid financial penalties and reduce the level of default.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this draft budget. we must reduce the level of default and the risk of default and ultimately prevent a budget deficit. it is essential that the remaining needs and legal obligations arising from past and current commitments are met by the end of the year. we must do everything we can to avoid fines and to ensure that beneficiaries receive their payments on time. debts and unpaid bills shall not be carried over continuously. such a practice is intolerable and wrong.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the mobilisation of the egf for spain to support the reintegration of workers made redundant in 140 enterprises active in the mineral products sector. the proposal aims to allocate eur 840 000 for the redundancies of 630 workers. the ongoing economic and financial crisis has triggered a sudden global economic downturn, which has had a huge impact on the european construction sector. the unemployment rate in the valencia region increased from 9,61% in 2008 to 29,19% in 2013. i support the proposals to support measures to re-employ these workers, their vocational guidance, training, upgrading of skills, promotion of entrepreneurship, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the egf for spain to support the reintegration of workers made redundant in 140 enterprises active in the mineral products sector. 630 workers were made redundant in this sector. the ongoing economic and financial crisis has triggered a sudden global economic downturn, which has had a huge impact on the european construction sector. i supported the proposed measures to reintegrate these dismissed workers into the labour market.
in writing. - i support the proposal to grant financial support to the autonomous community of valencia. it should be noted that the region was particularly hard hit by the crisis and had an unemployment rate of 29,19%. without the support of the egf, the regions are not able to solve the problems that they face on their own. i support the proposal that the bulk of the funding should be used for training, career guidance, job-search promotion and support for entrepreneurship. we must do everything possible to ensure that the benefits of the egf are felt directly not only by the redundant workers but also by their family members. only if the fund's support is used properly and in a timely manner will the social shock be mitigated and the negative effects of the crisis be prevented.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the signing of the public procurement agreement (ppo). the gpa is an international agreement on market access to public procurement, which entered into force in 1996 and to which 15 countries, including the eu, are signatories. it defines the rules for the tendering procedure and the contracting parties specify the part of their public procurement market they open to international competition. i agree that the 1996 contract needs to be improved in order to improve the rules on public procurement and to include new goods and services in the list of public procurement. the approval of the renewed contract will provide the european union with additional market access opportunities with a potential value of up to eur 30 billion. it is important that the contract includes the possibility of using electronic auctions and provides for the establishment of a free centralised electronic database providing information on the contracting entities. i support the proposal that companies found guilty of serious crimes may be excluded from the procurement process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because ensuring that services of general interest are provided to the population, in particular basic services such as water supply, housing, waste management, health care, education and cultural services, remains one of the most important tasks of any government. different countries use different approaches to combine this task with the need to use limited public resources efficiently and with the desire to purchase services and goods of the best value and quality. in many countries, the government and its agencies are collectively the largest purchasers of goods ranging from basic commodities to high-tech equipment. the eu has therefore put in place a set of rules that increase transparency and encourage the latest tendering practices, such as electronic public procurement. increasing transparency under eu public procurement rules increases legal certainty and helps to fight corruption and bribery in third countries. in many countries, public procurement is also used as a key tool to promote employment and economic activity in the region and to promote high standards of environmental protection and decent working conditions. given the differences in administrative levels of contracting entities, the task of a public procurement contract is difficult to establish a fair level playing field while allowing sufficient scope for political decisions and diversity. it is also essential that public procurement contracts provide legal certainty for eu companies to access foreign markets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the signing of the public procurement agreement (ppo). the gpa is an international agreement on market access to public procurement, which entered into force in 1996 and to which 15 countries, including the eu, are signatories. i agree that the 1996 contract needs to be improved in order to improve the rules on public procurement and to include new goods and services in the list of public procurement. the approval of the renewed contract will provide the european union with additional market access opportunities with a potential value of up to eur 30 billion.
the fact that today most colleagues refer to erasmus plus as a student exchange programme shows that it is indeed the most successful programme in the european union. in my country, at least 30 000 young people have benefited from this programme since 1999. this programme is not only an opportunity to experience a different educational system, to deepen knowledge of the specialty of your choice, but it is also an opportunity to experience a different culture, traditions, social life, perhaps to change a certain attitude, bound by certain stereotypes. the new approach of this programme is very important in terms of the involvement of the eastern partnership countries, especially today, when we are talking about the eastern partnership summit in lithuania and deeper cooperation with the countries of the region. and the fact that erasmus is now called erasmus plus and will include 6 programmes does not really change the substance. we should be pleased that these programmes are moving forward and are examples of success in the european union.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the seven-year programme 'erasmus+' will aim to improve skills, employment opportunities and support the modernisation of education, training and youth work systems. the programme's budget will be €14.7 billion, up 40% on the 2007-13 period. this means that more than 4 million people (higher education students, vocational school students and trainees in production, as well as those participating in youth exchanges or voluntary work abroad) will receive support for study, training, work or voluntary work abroad. in addition, this programme will provide funding for education and training staff, youth workers, partnerships between universities, colleges, schools and non-profit organisations. for the first time, the programme includes a separate budget line for sport. it will provide some €265 million over seven years to develop the european dimension of sport, helping to tackle transnational issues such as match-fixing and doping. in addition, cross-border projects involving amateur sports organisations will be supported, promoting good governance, social inclusion, dual careers and physical activity for all. i welcome the fact that this programme will be available not only to eu citizens but also to citizens of the eastern partnership countries - ukraine, georgia, armenia, moldova, belarus and azerbaijan.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the extension of the erasmus+ programme for education for the period 2014-2020. it is estimated that 4 million people will benefit from erasmus+ from next year. i agree that it is important to combine all existing education support programmes such as erasmus mundus, comenius, leonardo da vinci, grundtvig and youth in action to avoid duplication. importantly, next year the programme will be open not only to the eu but also to the eastern partnership countries belarus, ukraine, moldova, georgia, armenia and azerbaijan . it also states that the programme will start providing loan guarantees for master's studies, up to eur 12 000 per year. another innovation is that, for the first time, the programme includes sport funding to support the fight against violence and discrimination in sport and against doping. i believe that this programme is one of the most successful eu programmes, with 30 000 students and 10 000 teachers in lithuania alone having benefited from it since 1999, and it is therefore essential to continue it with the necessary funding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because erasmus+ is an integrated european union programme in the fields of education, training, youth and sport, which will run as one integrated programme between 2014 and 2020, bringing together the seven existing european union programmes, the most well-known of which are lifelong learning and youth in action. the main objectives of this multidisciplinary programme are to further promote international exchanges, traineeships and volunteering projects for learners, as well as for education and training professionals, at all stages of learning and education. the new programme will also contribute to the development of youth support structures and the strengthening of the role of persons working with young people and youth organisations. the total budget for the next seven years of the erasmus+ programme is set at €14.7 billion. for the first time in history, the budget for education, training and skills upgrading has been increased by as much as 40% following a reduction in the eu's general budget. it is planned that more than 4 million europeans will benefit from the opportunities offered by the programme to study or undertake traineeships abroad.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 'erasmus+' programme for education, which will enable students, teachers and staff to study or do an internship in another eu country. the programme will also be available to youth leaders, athletes and volunteers. it will also guarantee loans for master studies in another eu country. we must fight youth unemployment and promote european mobility and learning. the erasmus+ programme will bring together all the existing eu support programmes for education and training (erasmus, erasmus mundus, comenius, leonardo da vinci and grundtvig). the programme has a budget of eur 14.7 billion for the period 2014-2020. it is planned that these funds will help more than 4 million young people to study or train abroad. the new programme will also support new partnership agreements between training institutions and enterprises to provide learning opportunities in real work environments and to promote new training methods. the new programme will also include, for the first time, a line on sport, which will support the fight against violence and discrimination in sport and against doping. from next year, the programme will be open to representatives of the eastern partnership countries belarus, ukraine, moldova, georgia, armenia and azerbaijan as well as the european union. i believe that this programme is one of the most successful eu programmes. education and training are key components of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and of the guidelines for the member states' integrated economic growth and employment policies.
in writing. - i agree with the report. in particular, it is necessary to increase access to the programme on a continuous basis. the circle of subjects should be continuously extended to include third parties, non-governmental organisations. it is to be welcomed that this programme has succeeded in bringing together all the existing programmes and actions in the field of education. the commission has also succeeded in streamlining and simplifying its activities and administrative provisions. another important aspect is that the programme will receive a significant increase in funding. in order to ensure the stability of the projects, it is essential that the allocation of funds is based on a multiannual basis. i think that the lifelong learning aspect should be strengthened. more attention should be paid to the links between education and employment, education and poverty reduction, as well as vocational education and training and adult learning. in this context, the budget allocated to the vocational training and adult education sectors should be increased.
in writing. − the erasmus programme has grown to become one of the eu’s most successful and well-known initiatives. with this newly proposed version of the programme over 4 million people will now be able to enjoy the benefits the programme has to offer over the next seven years. the new erasmus plus programme will increase employability of young people, hopefully leading to a decrease in youth unemployment. by giving youth and young adults important skills such as educational and vocational training and language skills they will grow into high-demand citizens for employment. the new programme now has a sensible structure, clearly defining individual subprogrammes like comenius, erasmus, and leonardo da vinci. it is a sensible text that meets expectations and is easy to understand. the youth mobility aspect of the programme is important because mobility helps contribute to the broadening of innovation and the exchange of practices. i voted in favour of the report because the new erasmus plus programme encourages lifelong learning and benefits millions of students in europe.
thank you, mr. president, i want to thank you for the spelling of my name. it seems that being in this common family of european nations teaches us to know each other through linguistic things. preserving europe's cultural and linguistic diversity is a priority for all of us. it is not just about nurturing the traditions of each country, but also about strengthening the european union's common identity. the european union's identity, which has many components. when it comes to culture, the first challenge is to create a culture-oriented society. but culture can also create new jobs, ensure economic growth and contribute to it. as we can see, the general tendency of european union programmes is to bring together former programmes under a common roof. however, it is gratifying to have succeeded in giving the 'culture' and 'media' programmes a certain degree of autonomy, so that they can maintain their own identity and separate budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a 'creative europe' programme to support the european cultural and creative sectors. the cultural sector contributes 2.6% to european gdp and employs up to 5 million eu citizens. the new programme is intended to finance the mobility and dissemination of 300 000 european artists, supported by 2 500 cinemas. i agree that there is a need to support more actively the european cinema, television, culture, music, performing arts and heritage sectors, which are a major source of jobs and economic growth in europe. it is important that the creative europe programme helps the eu to address challenges such as access to credit, especially for smes, globalisation, the digital transition, etc. i support the proposals set out to improve the instruments of international political cooperation in the field of education: to improve the implementation of digital platforms, cooperation with universities and cultural institutions, to strengthen the role and capacity of the creative europe centres in the programme, and to seek to attract a wider audience in the cultural sector, in particular children, young people and people with disabilities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are essential to consolidate the foundations of european integration in diversity and to secure its future, while maintaining pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, and to strengthen the social model, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and openness to third countries. in this respect, the eu safeguards and promotes tangible and intangible heritage and ensures that the cultural dimension is taken into account in all policies. we must also exploit the full potential of the creative and cultural sectors for economic growth, competitiveness and job creation, and for the protection and promotion of european cultural and linguistic diversity. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and actions in the field of education and training, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policies and actions in the field of education and training. in addition, the cultural and creative sectors are included in the programme, which guarantees a higher number of beneficiaries and participating countries and actions to be implemented. the creative europe programme is another framework programme that can make a significant contribution to the lives of those working in the creative and cultural industries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a 'creative europe' programme because the protection and promotion of creativity and culture is essential to consolidate the foundations of european integration in diversity and to secure its future, while maintaining pluralism, democracy and peaceful coexistence, and to strengthen the social model, innovation, social inclusion, sustainable development, intercultural dialogue and openness to third countries. in this respect, the eu safeguards and promotes tangible and intangible heritage and ensures that the cultural dimension is taken into account in all policies. it is necessary to exploit the full potential of the creative and cultural sectors for economic growth, competitiveness and job creation, as well as for the protection and promotion of european cultural and linguistic diversity. the cultural and creative sectors currently contribute 2.6% of european gdp and continue to grow, representing more than 5 million jobs, and this in the context of the economic crisis. in addition, particular attention has been paid to the coherence and complementarity of the proposed programme with other union policies and actions (in particular in the fields of education, cohesion, research and business).
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in particular, i believe that more funding is needed for the implementation of the creative europe programme. this programme will give a boost to the fast-growing cultural and creative sectors, which generate a lot of jobs. it should be noted that the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are essential to consolidate the foundation of european integration in diversity and to ensure its future. only through culture can we preserve pluralism, democracy and peace. in this context, greater attention should be paid to the protection and promotion of european cultural and linguistic diversity and to enhancing the competitiveness of the sector. only if the measures envisaged are properly implemented will the social model be strengthened, innovation, social inclusion and intercultural dialogue be promoted.
in writing. − the preservation and endorsement of culture and creativity is an important part of strengthening the future of the eu. culture is an essential part of europe’s diversity. a creative europe will help to strengthen collectiveness and stimulate growth, innovation and competitiveness. the significance of the creative and culture sector can be observed through the development of the sector’s gdp, which has continued to grow despite the economic crisis. it is an important sector to continue to foster in the economy because it provides jobs to 3.8% of the workforce, or about 5 million people. although it is regrettable that the council reduced the proposed budget for this year, the programme has still received a deserved increase in funding over previous years. this new creative europe programme will bring together current media, media mundas, and culture programmes without losing valuable qualities of each individual programme. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report on the creative european programme.
this year is being called the year of citizens in the european union. and our ongoing work is about representing the interests of citizens, not just in the economic sense, but in many other areas as well. we have voted today on an important document for cooperation and for getting to know each other better. the programme has already proven its need. i regret that the european parliament has become a hostage to certain legal circumstances. we formally dropped some of our amendments in order to allow the programme to start as early as next year. we hope that the promise will be kept and that the positions and proposals of the european parliament will be taken into account. i'm particularly interested in the subject of historical memory. several colleagues have already mentioned this aspect. it is also important to me that our continuing efforts to preserve the memory of the crimes of nazism and stalinism have been recognised. in other words, the revival of historical memory, the exchange of citizens' experiences of history. and that it would be done in a way that we could get to know each other better.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the extension of the europe for citizens programme. the aim of the programme is to stimulate civil society debate on the eu, to encourage citizens to better understand the history and values of the eu, and to understand how eu policies affect their daily lives. i agree that it is important to support projects that are relevant to citizens and that give the whole of civil society a chance to participate in eu affairs. the programme will contribute to the strengthening of european citizenship. through the 'europe for citizens' programme, civil society organisations will encourage citizens to discuss economic, employment or environmental issues that concern them. international partnership projects will also be implemented, providing opportunities for sharing best practices and enhancing cooperation with the european institutions. i support the proposals for changing the legal basis, which would allow the european parliament not only to approve or reject this text but also to express its opinion. it is also important to emphasise the importance of local groups and initiatives and to increase the funding for the programme.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to ensure the participation of european citizens in the process of european integration and to foster a european identity of european citizens based on common values, history and culture. it will also help to improve understanding of issues relating to the european union, to promote remembrance, to raise awareness of the union's history, identity and purpose through debate, reflection and networking, and to promote democratic and civic participation of society at union level by improving public understanding of the union's political decision-making process. at local level, citizens need to be brought together to debate specific issues of european interest, as this is how they learn about the impact of union policies on their daily lives. it is also important to meet the need to have a real debate on union issues not only at local or regional but also at national level and to reach out, through various organisations, to a large group of citizens who do not normally seek to influence or participate in union issues. it is also necessary to support organisations promoting debates on the themes of remembrance, european values and history, organisations of general european interest, partnership organisations at cross-border level and networks promoting citizens' responses to what is happening in the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the extension of the europe for citizens programme, as it aims to stimulate civil society debate on the eu, to encourage citizens to better understand the history and values of the eu, and to understand how eu policies affect their daily lives. the programme will contribute to the strengthening of european citizenship. through the 'europe for citizens' programme, civil society organisations will encourage citizens to discuss economic, employment or environmental issues that concern them. international partnership projects will also be implemented, providing opportunities for sharing best practices and enhancing cooperation with the european institutions.
in writing. - i support this resolution. given the current success of the programme, its importance for european citizens, as well as its clear european added value, this programme should be given particular attention and adequate funding. in order to bring europe as close as possible to its citizens, the programme should cover a wide range of different actions. i believe that citizens' capacity to participate should be enhanced at union level, covering all aspects of public life. more attention and funding should be given to the preservation of memory part of the programme. it is essential that the allocation of funds is geographically balanced and takes account of the future potential of projects, not just their short-term impact.
in writing. − the europe for citizens programme is unique, because it is the only programme at european union level that focuses exclusively on strengthening remembrance and allowing eu citizens to have a better way to participate at union level. it is one of the most visible programmes considered by the committee on culture and education. however, for what it aims to do, the programme has a relatively modest budget. the aim is to get citizens closer to europe and allow them to be a part of the ‘european project.’ this is not a new programme, as the previous europe for citizens programme was run similarly from 2007 to 2013. this programme allows eu citizens to increase cooperation between one another and to increase multinational exchanges. it creates an idea of belonging and of increasing the discussion of european ideals and european integration. one big issue with this programme is that the european parliament, after a change from the european commission, cannot put in amendments or request fund increases to the programme. i, however, support this programme because i believe it is necessary to implement it, even if meps cannot unfortunately have the input that they generally do.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the european infrastructure networks facility (eitf) as it will ensure a high level of infrastructure development in europe. the objective of this programme is to support projects for transport, energy and telecommunications interconnections in the period 2014-2020. it is important to note that among the many projects covered by this measure, there are also projects to reduce the energy gap in the baltic states. i would remind you that the projects of relevance to lithuania which will be financed by this instrument are: the lithuanian-polish gas pipeline link, the lithuanian-polish electricity link between alytaus and elko (poland), the integration of the estonian, latvian and lithuanian electricity systems into the continental european networks (synchronisation links), the renewal of the gas pipeline infrastructure in the eastern part of the baltic sea, including the strengthening of the latvian-lithuanian gas pipeline link and the capacity building of the kiemeni gas pipeline. given the difficult economic situation in many eu member states, it is necessary to pursue progress on both economic, social and environmental levels. europe must remain competitive and return to sustainable and balanced growth. i agree with the rapporteurs that the eitp would not only provide the funds necessary for infrastructure projects but also encourage research and technological development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of a new programme for the european infrastructure networks fund, which will help to complete the major trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications interconnection projects. the priority projects to be funded by the european union include projects to break the energy isolation of the baltic states: the baltic energy market connectivity plan and the baltic energy market connectivity plan. the budget of the european network and infrastructure fund for the years 2014-2020 is 29 billion. of this, €23 billion will go to the transport sector (to improve crossborder connections) and €5 billion to the energy sector (to modernise, develop and increase security of supply of energy infrastructure). i agree that projects that strengthen the energy system not just of one country but of the region and of the eu as a whole should be more likely to receive european union support.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important to focus funds on projects that create additional european benefits in the areas of transport, energy and telecommunications, sectors which are of great importance for the future of the union and its citizens, in order to establish european integrated networks that ensure a well-functioning high-level infrastructure throughout the union. it is also important to establish a european infrastructure networks facility (eitf) which would make a significant contribution to the objective of growth and competitiveness in the transport, energy and telecommunications sectors. it is the eitp that can deliver the most effective eu funding for the union's key political priorities in the areas of transport, energy and telecommunications through transparent, synergistic, simplified, centralised and requirement-based management. the european union needs to have robust, well-functioning and reliable transport, energy and telecommunications systems that contribute to the competitiveness of its economy in the world, to the sustainable and integrated functioning of the union, and to the improvement of its economic, social and environmental performance and its territorial integration.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because the new european infrastructure networks fund would help to complete the main trans-european transport, energy and telecommunications interconnection projects. this regulation establishes the european infrastructure networks instrument, which lays down the conditions, methods and procedures for the provision of union financial assistance to trans-european networks in order to support projects of common interest in the transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure sectors and to exploit potential synergies between those sectors. it also lays down the allocation of resources to be allocated under the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the priority projects to receive eu funding include projects to break the energy isolation of the baltic states: the baltic energy market electricity connections plan and the baltic energy market gas connections plan.
in writing. − i support this document which proposes to create a new integrated instrument for investing in the eu's transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure priorities the european infrastructure networks instrument. it is clear that a new instrument is needed to stabilise public finances, as well as measures to boost the eu's competitiveness. at the same time, the measure is important in that the baltic energy markets (in particular the electricity and gas interconnection plans) are considered to be a priority. the consistent implementation of these measures will eliminate energy islands, while enhancing the quality of eu infrastructure and the energy independence of the eu as a whole.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for guidelines for the development of the trans-european transport networks (ten-t). these guidelines set out the priority transport links between the major cities and ports of the european union with a view to creating an efficient network of road, rail, air and water transport links. i believe that the ten-t will contribute to the economic, social and geographical cohesion of the eu. the budget of the european infrastructure networks fund is 29 billion. of this, €23 billion will go to the transport sector (to improve crossborder connections) and €5 billion to the energy sector (to modernise, develop and increase security of supply of energy infrastructure). i agree that projects that strengthen the energy system not just of one country but of the region and of the eu as a whole should be more likely to receive european union support.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is one of the most important projects of the european union. it is the cornerstone of the single market, which is essential to ensure the mobility of eu citizens, economic, social and territorial cohesion, economic growth and job creation. transport is the foundation for successful economic and social cohesion and integration in our society. accessible and efficient transport infrastructure is essential for the provision of efficient transport services, essential for freedom of movement and vital for ensuring the ability of all regions of the european union to remain competitive in the european union's single market. smart infrastructure is a prerequisite for a well-functioning transport system. investments in infrastructure pay back over a very long period of time and, if done or understood properly, provide benefits many times over. it is important that the development of the trans-european transport network takes into account not only national, regional or local preferences but also the european dimension, ensuring maximum added value for europe and progress within the limits of financial resources. it is also important to bear in mind that the climate impact of transport infrastructure is long-term and that climate impact assessments are necessary for new or upgraded infrastructure projects. this is particularly important in the context of the enormous challenges for transport policy to reduce carbon emissions and to achieve the ambitious targets set out in the transport white paper.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. economic and social cohesion and integration, and the free movement of goods and persons are integral to the successful functioning of the trans-european transport network (ten-t). the priorities and the proposed two-tier structure make it possible to simplify the administration of tent-t and to use the available infrastructure funds more rationally. ensuring quality infrastructure improves connectivity, the functioning of the single market, enabling economic growth and mobility, and contributes to the quality of life of european citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on agricultural and fisheries statistics. the aim of the proposal is to amend nine legislative acts in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics in order to bring them into line with the new institutional context.
in writing. − i have supported the proposal as it is necessary to amend nine legislative acts in the field of agricultural and fisheries statistics in order to bring them into line with the new institutional context.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a convention on the protection of inter-state watercourses and international lakes. the aim of the proposal is to approve amendments to this convention which would allow it to be open on a global scale and to be open to accession by those countries which so wish. the convention aims to establish a multilateral cooperation framework to prevent and control pollution of transboundary water bodies and to ensure rational use of water resources by states parties to the convention. the eu has been a party to the convention since 1995. in 2003, the parties to the convention expressed their wish to allow other states not belonging to the eeas region to become parties to the convention. i support the european parliament's adoption of this amendment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to establish a framework of bilateral or multilateral cooperation to prevent and control pollution of transboundary water bodies and to ensure that the member states of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) use water resources rationally. the european parliament's support for the adoption, on behalf of the european union, of the amendment to articles 25 and 26 of the convention of the united nations economic commission for europe on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes (the helsinki convention) is also important, as it is essential that this convention be open on a global scale, aiming to encourage cooperation at river basin level worldwide and to allow other states outside the eeas region to become parties to this convention. together with these amendments, the convention is of particular importance to countries bordering the eaec region, such as afghanistan, china, iran and some central asian states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to approve amendments to the convention on the protection and use of transboundary watercourses and international lakes of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), in order to make the convention open to the world and to allow non-unece countries to accede to it if they so wish. objective to establish a multilateral cooperation framework to prevent and control pollution of transboundary water bodies and to ensure rational use of water resources by the efta states.
in writing. - while the european parliament's endorsement of this council decision is more formal, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the importance of the international agreement it is clarifying. the protection of transboundary waters from pollution is also important for the protection of waters at the eu's external border. the source of the nemunas river, which flows through the territory of lithuania, is in belarus, and part of this river separates the territories of lithuania and the russian federation. the eu's involvement in the international settlement of the river's pollution issues is also important, as both countries occasionally take unpredictable actions in their energy projects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for the extension of the research programme of the iter project for the years 2014-2018. the iter project is being implemented under the terms of an international agreement between euratom and 6 other countries (china, india, japan, korea, russia and the usa). the objective of this project is to build and operate an experimental fusion reactor and thus create a sustainable energy source, since fusion generates a very high amount of energy but does not completely remove greenhouse gases. investing in technologies that can lead to climate-friendly energy, research and development, including the development of fusion energy, is one of the eu's priorities. by signing the agreement establishing the international synthesis energy organisation for iter, the eu has committed itself to hosting iter on its territory and to managing its construction and future operation, and i therefore support the continuation of funding for the iter project. i agree with the objection to the exclusion of the iter research project from the multiannual financial framework (mff).
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because it is necessary to establish the future provision of eu funding for iter for the period 2014-2018. this project must be financed in sufficient quantities to achieve the expected results without jeopardising the implementation of other eu programmes, in particular in the field of research. the iter research project is valuable in that it demonstrates fusion as a possible future source of safe, sustainable, environmentally responsible and economically viable european energy and should therefore continue to be funded. the iter project is being implemented under the terms of an international agreement between euratom and 6 other countries (china, india, japan, korea, russia and the usa). the objective of this project is to build and operate an experimental fusion reactor and thus create a sustainable energy source, since fusion generates a very high amount of energy but no greenhouse gases. investing in technologies that can lead to climate-friendly energy, research and development, including the development of fusion energy, is one of the eu's priorities.
in writing. − the iter programme is an ongoing international research project involving, in addition to the eu, japan, russia, china, india, korea and the usa. this programme aims to unlock fusion and develop it as a potential future source of safe, sustainable, environmentally responsible and economically viable european energy. the main objective is to make progress in demonstrating the feasibility of generating electricity from fusion at the demo reactor and to use the long-term experience gained in the construction of commercial fusion power plants. i agree with the need to continue funding the programme, taking into account the ep's position to strengthen the monitoring and supervision of the project and to involve the ep more in order to avoid hospital shortages and unforeseen cost overruns.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as the aim is to extend horizon 2020 to include nuclear research. all member states can and should benefit from nuclear research and from the european added value provided by the euratom programme. the euratom programme must therefore ensure the most efficient use of resources at all levels and avoid duplication of efforts in promoting progress in the nuclear field. the proposed budget for nuclear fission technologies in the proposed financial package is very modestly increased. the union funding for renewable energy has not been matched by the different programmes, and nuclear fission has not received a similar level of support, despite being recognised as a low-carbon energy source. the inclusion of iter in the mff and horizon 2020 funding scheme will provide a better and more comprehensive overview of the resources allocated to this project and will re-establish iter's place in the future union research pipeline.
in writing. − the objective of the euratom programme is to enhance nuclear safety, security and radiation protection, to help decarbonise the eu energy system in the long term, to contribute to other research areas such as medical research, and to ensure the long-term future of european nuclear research. whether or not a member state uses nuclear energy, it can benefit from nuclear research. the programme will contribute to the development of the experience acquired and will prevent the shortage of certain specialists or the 'flow of ideas' from the eu to third countries. on the international front, parliament calls for particular attention to be paid to all nuclear installations in third countries bordering the union, especially if such installations are located in areas where natural disasters are frequent.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a cooperation instrument on nuclear safety. the objective of the bbssp is to ensure that the eu has sufficient measures to promote human safety in response to nuclear safety and radiation safety problems in third countries. priorities for 2014-2020 would include the clean-up of mining sites, the proper disposal of spent fuel, waste management and decommissioning of installations. i support the proposal to increase the funding of this measure by 5.8%, which will contribute to the implementation of the highest standards of nuclear safety and radiation protection. i welcome the proposals made to promote a high level of nuclear safety and the application of effective safeguards in third countries.
in writing. − i supported the proposal to ensure that adequate measures are taken to promote human and strategic security in response to the challenges of nuclear safety, radiation safety and nuclear safeguards in all third countries. furthermore, the european union's cooperation in the field of nuclear safety will contribute to the achievement of some of the external policy objectives of the europe 2010 strategy by promoting regulatory cooperation and other forms of cooperation with emerging economies, as well as the exchange of best practices and standards. new priorities for the 2014-2020 programme clean up mining sites, proper disposal of spent fuel, waste management and decommissioning of installations. intervention technical assistance will also be exchanged through cooperation and the sharing of eu-built practical experience with third countries, including actions in the areas of nuclear power plant design, operation, maintenance and regulation.
in writing. − cooperation in the field of nuclear safety is particularly important to ensure that nuclear facilities not only in the eu but also in third countries (especially those in the eu's neighbourhood) meet the highest safety standards. it is therefore important to ensure adequate funding for the institutions responsible for this cooperation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this regulation, which provides for eu financial support for the financing of the decommissioning of the ignalina nuclear power plant for the period 2014-2020. i am pleased that we have been able to secure much more funding than was originally proposed by the commission. lithuania will receive €450 million from the eu over the next seven years, rather than the €228 million proposed by the commission. after lengthy discussions in the itre committee, the members of the committee were convinced that, unlike slovakia and bulgaria, protocol 4 to the accession treaty would apply to lithuania as the legal basis for financial assistance, rather than the euratom treaty. we have voted in favour of this provision, which will ensure funding for the closure of ignalina beyond 2020.
in writing. − i voted in favour of a separate eu programme to support the closure of nuclear power plants (npps) in lithuania, bulgaria and slovakia between 2014 and 2020. during this period, eur 450 million in current prices will be allocated to the closure of ignalina ae. the new rules on the financing of the closure of nuclear power plants will allow the eu to extend its support to lithuania, bulgaria and slovakia, which have committed to decommissioning these plants. they need not only to shut down the reactor but also to remove spent fuel elements and radioactive materials, to deactivate and dismantle nuclear installations and to restore the environment of contaminated sites. the decommissioning of the ignalina nuclear power plant is a long-term process and represents an exceptional financial burden for lithuania, which is out of proportion to the size of the country and its economic capacity. the legal basis for the financing of the closure of this ae should be considered not the euratom treaty but protocol 4 to the eu treaty on the accession of lithuania, which would allow the eu support to be extended beyond 2020 if necessary. the financing is proposed subject to the condition that lithuania, bulgaria and slovakia transpose the eu council directives on nuclear safety and on spent fuel and radioactive waste management, and prepare plans for financing the decommissioning of nuclear reactors, clearly indicating the sources of financing. the european commission shall assess the progress of the closure of those nes by the end of 2017. if the commission decides to review the level of eu support, this should not be at the expense of the safety of the ae.
in writing. − i voted in favour of and welcomed the ep's decision on eu support for the decommissioning of nuclear reactors in bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia for the period 2014-2020. as noted in the regulation, this task is an extremely complex and long-term process for lithuania and represents an exceptional financial burden, which is not commensurate with the size of the country and its economic capacity. i am pleased that the argument that eu support for the closure of ignalina ae should be continued and that its legal basis is the accession treaty and not the euratom treaty as initially claimed has been taken into account. it also increased the amount of aid to be granted. i think it is important to learn from the lessons and not to repeat the mistakes that have made these decisions difficult. it is in the interest of all of us that the closure of the iaea be carried out in a transparent, timely manner and in accordance with the highest standards of nuclear safety.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this draft regulation on union support for the decommissioning aid programmes for nuclear reactors in bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia. it is welcome that over €450 million will be allocated to finance the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant over the 2014-2020 period, compared to a lower figure of only €230 million. thus, more than double the promised amount of 220 million was reached. this is a major achievement for lithuanian politicians and a step towards energy independence. another important aspect is that the aid scheme also provides for an exception in favour of lithuania. the legal basis for the financing of the closure of the ignalina nuclear power plant will be considered not the euratom treaty but protocol 4 to the treaty of accession of lithuania to the european union. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the beneficiary of the aid, which is the beneficiary of the aid.
i thank the rapporteurs and commissioner reding for the good work they have done together. in fact, this directive, which aims to ensure gender representation in companies, is a model for ensuring gender equality in the european union and elsewhere. and for those who are still sceptical about the proposed directive on the inclusion of women in companies, i would like to emphasise that this directive does not oblige companies to appoint only women to board positions, the purpose of this legislation is to ensure that the candidate whose gender is less represented in companies is selected from a number of candidates with the same education and similar qualifications and to achieve the goal of at least 40% of company non-executive directors being representatives of the under-represented gender. lithuania, as the country holding the presidency of the council, is working very hard to reach an agreement on this directive. but the negotiations in the council are certainly not easy, there is still a blocking minority of member states. however, i hope that the council will take stock of the efforts made to achieve progress on gender equality and will be able to reach a common consensus so that we can adopt this directive during the current term of office of the european parliament. good luck voting for this directive tomorrow.
in writing. the question of the location of the seat of the institutions of the european union is a constant concern of our citizens and of our own members of the european parliament. it is becoming increasingly difficult for european citizens to explain why parliament meets in strasbourg for one week a month. moreover, such travel is uneconomical, harmful to the environment and makes it difficult to organise the work of the european parliament itself. this is a question that must be addressed particularly now that budgets are being cut in many member states and parliament is responding accordingly and is seeking to save money on the budget for strasbourg. in considering the arguments for and against the two european parliament seats, we do not wish to diminish the historical and symbolic value of the strasbourg seat, but perhaps there is another way to enshrine this historical value. because today strasbourg, once the symbol of european unity and integration, is the symbol of wasteful spending and bureaucracy. the european parliament should therefore pay particular attention to this issue and take into account the historical significance of its choice of seat, the historical agreement of the member states on the location of all the eu institutions, the opinion of the inhabitants of all the cities concerned and, in general, the opinion of the citizens of the european union. i hope that we will be able to take the views of our citizens into account and, having assessed the situation ourselves, agree that we must aim to do away with the caravan and work in one place.
in writing. mr president, the regulation on the common agricultural policy that we are now considering should primarily promote rural development and support the european agricultural fund, which helps to reduce the agricultural disparity between the so-called old and the new union. the cap must become a component of the wider cohesion policy to stimulate the sector. we must oppose any decisions that threaten local producers, who are the backbone of agriculture in central and eastern europe, especially in countries like lithuania. the separation of direct payments from production would also be necessary, as this would create a level playing field for agricultural trade between farmers from the new eu member states and farmers from the old 'fifteen' who have been subsidised for much longer. the regulation lacks a clear reference to multiannual funding programmes, which should include a specific declaration on the end of the unequal direct payments to farmers from the new member states. in eastern european countries, benefits are several times lower than in western europe. there is no rational justification for sanctioning existing disparities in agricultural financing, which would artificially divide europe into two parts with different rates of development in the agricultural sector. this is not only unfair but also reduces the competitiveness of our agriculture. our goal is to equalise the level of development among the members of the community. the unequal treatment of farmers must be brought to an end in the near future.
for the efd group the main challenges for the european union as a whole next year are to revive growth in an effective and sustainable way and to tackle unemployment. i agree with the commission that economic growth and job creation have been chosen as the top priority, with particular attention to tackling youth unemployment and facilitating access to finance. but i would suggest that we be much more specific. if the institutions of the european union today are trying to regulate the size of cucumbers, eggs or bananas throughout the community, it seems that they should also decide on the mandatory minimum income that the european union should guarantee to every member of the community, to every citizen. we can shout about strengthening the single market to the death, but if almost a fifth of the people in the european union live below the poverty line, we will never achieve that strength. i think that the commission should look for new ways and opportunities to promote youth employment in the community countries. this could be done by increasing subsidies to employers and by reducing or recommending a uniform, say halving, taxation of labour for those under 30 for the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement with the eu council on the 2014 budget of the european union. its commitments will amount to €142.6 billion (as proposed by the european commission) and payments to €135.5 billion (€500 million more than proposed by the eu council). i agree that next year's budget should include more money for employment, research (horizon 2020), education (erasmus+), border management (eu external border management agency and europol) and humanitarian aid. however, it is regrettable that the 2014 budget is even 6% lower than this year's eu budget. it is also important that the current year's eu budget deficit problem does not spill over into the next year, and the council should therefore provide for the allocation of the missing funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour as a realistic budget was agreed to help us finance new programmes and actions in 2014 that were agreed jointly during the negotiations on the multiannual programme for the period 201 to 2020. the compromise is intended to finance the main priority policy areas of interest to both the european parliament and the council. these are innovation, growth and employment, the fight against youth unemployment, but also the protection of migration and control of the european union's external borders. we will also have sufficient margin to respond to unforeseen circumstances that may arise next year and require eu action. almost half of the budget, €64 billion, will be allocated to smart and inclusive growth initiatives. this will include a substantial increase in funding for research, innovation and education, and a commitment of €47.5 billion for cohesion policy. while many eu member states face financial constraints, the agreed eu budget does not place additional burdens on their budgets, but ensures that funds are allocated to key priorities such as creating jobs for young people and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. we were also able to agree on a sufficient degree of flexibility to allow the eu to respond to unforeseen situations that would require additional costs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. i welcome the joint text, which after long discussions has finally brought about a common consensus and reconciled different approaches and interests that are difficult to reconcile. i believe that this budget will provide a good basis for the successful implementation of new programmes in the new multiannual financial framework. it is good to see that the focus will be on innovation, growth and job creation, and the fight against youth unemployment. i believe that funding for research, innovation and education should be increased and more money allocated to smart and inclusive growth initiatives.
in writing. − the negotiations on the european union budget have been long and arduous. unfortunately, the budget was not increased in the interinstitutional negotiations, as parliament had requested. however, the compromise reached is favourable to lithuania. in the coming period, lithuania will receive 10% more than in 2007-2013. i am pleased that the ep has achieved some important achievements. first, the eu member states undertook to cover all liabilities from the previous period. parliament also achieved a much greater flexibility in the budget, making it easier to use unused funds in areas where they are needed most, such as science and research, or to carry them over to the next year. parliament also agreed with the council that the budget will be reviewed and adjusted mid-term, at the latest in 2016. although the interinstitutional agreement on the future financial perspective is certainly not ideal, i voted for the compromise agreed because i think the european parliament has succeeded in improving it.
in writing. − i have accepted the proposal as it has been shown that, after examining all possibilities for reallocating appropriations for category 1b, it is necessary to mobilise the flexibility instrument to supplement the financing of the structural funds programmes for cyprus provided for in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014 by eur 89 330 000 above the ceiling for category 1b, so that a total of eur 100 million can be made available to cyprus from the structural funds in 2014. the flexibility instrument may be mobilised to cover clearly identified expenditure which cannot be covered within the ceilings of one or more categories of expenditure in the multiannual financial framework.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i think that the funding of structural fund programmes for cyprus should be increased. cyprus is not capable of solving its problems on its own and of preventing potential risks to the euro area as a whole. only through joint efforts will a sound and sustainable economic and financial situation be restored in the country. it is noted that cyprus should make greater efforts to expand, strengthen and fine-tune the necessary policy instruments to ensure the successful use of the structural funds. it is essential that eu policy initiatives to create jobs and boost growth are effectively implemented in the country. these measures will help cyprus to achieve long-term growth, restore confidence in the financial markets, restore a sound macroeconomic balance and allow a return to sustainable economic growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of draft amending budget no 9 for commitments and payments of eur 400,5 million for the eu solidarity fund. this will be for germany, austria and the czech republic, which have been hit by floods, and for romania, which has been hit by droughts and forest fires. the necessary payments are proposed to be covered from the available funds of the eu budget through the so-called global transfer of appropriations. i have endorsed the agreement reached in the conciliation committee on 12 november 2013 to finance the above-mentioned mobilisation by pooling up to eur 250,5 million of the 2013 payment appropriations and by allocating eur 150 million of new appropriations in 2014, which will allow to finance the research needs identified in the overall transfer of eur 200 million, in particular by signing several new research contracts later this year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this draft amending budget. this is a very important step forward in avoiding a shortage of legitimate payments in this year's eu budget. in view of the devastating impact of natural disasters in romania, germany, austria and the czech republic, the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund is necessary. i support the proposal that the necessary payments be covered from the available funds of the eu budget by means of the so-called global transfer of appropriations. another important aspect is that this draft budget is a very important part of the political agreement on the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for the needs of romania, germany, austria and the czech republic. in the summer of 2012, a large area of romania was affected by very low rainfall and recurrent extreme heat waves, which led to drought and crop losses, numerous forest and grassland fires, water shortages for the population and related problems in water supply and hydropower generation systems. finally, in november 2012, the romanian authorities decided to apply for financial support from the eu solidarity fund. the meteorological conditions in central europe in may and june 2013 were very similar to those that led to the worst floods of the last century in 2002 and subsequently to the creation of the eu solidarity fund itself. again, severe flooding occurred in germany, austria, and the czech republic. germany applied for financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund under the major disaster criteria, while the applications of austria and the czech republic were based on the so-called 'neighbourhood criterion'. having examined whether this proposal meets the eligibility criteria under council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, the commission has proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for the needs of romania, germany, austria and the czech republic.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund is a powerful example of solidarity. it should be noted that the drought and forest fires in romania and the floods in germany, austria and the czech republic have had a significant negative impact on the living conditions, the natural environment and the economy of the population of these countries. financial support to disaster-stricken countries is therefore essential. it is essential that the assistance provided by the fund is progressive. in addition, national authorities at local and regional level should better assess existing needs. the implementation of these measures will help to alleviate the consequences of natural disasters and demonstrate solidarity.
in writing. − i have agreed to the proposal as it has become apparent from the examination of all the possibilities for reallocating commitment appropriations under expenditure category 1b that the flexibility instrument should be mobilised. the commission has proposed to mobilise the flexibility instrument to complement the financing of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2013, above the ceiling for expenditure category 1b, by allocating eur 134 049 037 to the european social fund, with a view to increasing the 2013 allocations for france, italy and spain by a total of eur 150 000 000. i voted in favour of the mobilisation of the commitments of the flexibility instrument, with a maximum amount of eur 134 049 037, to finance these additional appropriations under expenditure category 1b.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a new phase of the galileo satellite navigation programme. significant progress has been made in the implementation of the galileo and egnos programmes. it is essential to ensure the financial sustainability of these pilot programmes in the future so that european industry and citizens can benefit from them. these programmes contribute to the competitiveness and innovation of key industrial sectors in the eu. the commission proposes to allocate €7 billion to the galileo and egnos programmes to develop the eu's satellite navigation infrastructure and ensure that space activities are carried out by 2020. the programmes will enable users to determine their position in space and time more precisely. the service will be provided to public authorities for police and emergency services and for search and rescue services, for example in the case of a missing seafarer. i support the proposals put forward to create a service with a permanent link to consumers, responsible for the quality and continuity of services.
in writing. − i have supported the proposal to continue funding programmes under the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. as the gnss regulation does not provide for a financing and management structure for the galileo and egnos programmes beyond 2013, a new legal framework is necessary for the long-term operation, monitoring and management of the systems. this proposal for a regulation on the implementation and exploitation of the european satellite navigation programmes sets out the governance model and funding for the galileo and egnos (european geostationary navigation network) programmes for the period 2014-2020, in particular with regard to governance and sound financial management, and renews the eu's commitment to ensure that the systems are completed and operational by 2020. support the objective of the galileo programme to develop the first global civil satellite navigation system (gnss) that is fully independent of other existing systems, compatible with other different navigation systems and designed to provide continuous gnss services. already today, 6-7% of the gdp of 27 european countries, or €800 billion, depends on the us gps system. the proposed gnss programmes will help generate a net profit of eur 68,63 billion for the union over the life cycle of the system from 2014 to 2034. it is therefore essential that the european gnss agency (gsa) develops a business plan for the development of this market.
in writing. − the increasing use of global navigation satellite technologies in various economic sectors, as well as in the lives of ordinary citizens, requires the provision of an efficient satellite navigation system, which would also eliminate the need to rely on the us and russian analogue systems (gps and glonass respectively), and i therefore support the position expressed by mr marian-jean marinescu on the need to further develop satellite navigation systems (galileo and egnos programmes) and to ensure adequate funding for this area.
in writing. − european satellite navigation systems are important for all eu countries. space systems will contribute to the eu's economic recovery, create new business opportunities and create new jobs. for the next eu financial programming period 2013-2020, the programme is allocated eur 7 million. at present, the eu has four satellites. satellite navigation systems are useful in telecommunications, transportation, and energy. the european satellite system will also be available to the police in the event of a security crisis or, for example, border control. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for a clear definition of who will be able to use the systems and by what means, and it is necessary to define the geographical scope of the use of the systems. i agree with the rapporteur that these systems should contribute to a better data protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan, which would amount to eur 180 million and would be granted in the form of a medium-term loan. the aid will be paid in two instalments over a period of two years and, in view of the urgent financing needs, a slightly higher amount will be paid in the first instalment. the first tranche (eur 100 million) is expected to be paid at the end of 2013 and the second tranche (eur 80 million) in the first half of 2014. since the beginning of 2011, the jordanian economy has been significantly affected by local events related to the arab spring and the ongoing unrest in the region, in particular in neighbouring egypt and syria, which has led to increased refugee flows. the decline in tourist and foreign direct investment flows, the increase in energy prices and the continuing disruption of natural gas supplies from egypt have slowed economic growth and, consequently, have significantly weakened the balance of payments and the fiscal position. despite significant fiscal consolidation efforts and the use of financial support from foreign aid providers (including a usd 2 billion 36-month reserve agreement with the international monetary fund), balance of payments and financing needs remain high. in view of the deteriorating economic situation and prospects, the jordanian government has requested eur 200 million in macro-financial assistance from the eu.
in writing. − i supported the desire to strengthen cooperation between these two major trading partners in the area of control of trade in precursors of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. it establishes cooperation between the two parties in the field of trade surveillance for certain chemicals and a mechanism for mutual administrative assistance. this agreement is the first of its kind to include such an important clause on data protection. these provisions will provide citizens with adequate protection in relation to the use of their data for the purposes of the said agreement, while ensuring an appropriate level of monitoring of the movement of the aforementioned precursors and curbing the activities of criminal groups in this area.
in writing. − i support this proposal, which aims at an eu-russian federation agreement to strengthen cooperation in the area of control of trade in precursors of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances. the russian federation is the largest producer of precursors used for the production of drugs until 2012, and measures must be sought to prevent the diversion of precursors from the legal trade to illicit purposes. as drugs and drug use remain a major problem in the eu, it is necessary to focus efforts and strengthen eu and international cooperation in the areas of detecting the production and prevention of illicit substances.
in writing. − undoubtedly because of the operational needs of the member states which request that europol conclude agreements with brazil, georgia, mexico and the united arab emirates. however, the proposal cannot be accepted on the basis of provisions incompatible with the treaty of lisbon. the current level of data protection in some of the countries listed in the proposal is also a concern. therefore, even if the proposal is accepted, the director of europol and the management board should not enter into any negotiations on the conclusion of operating agreements with the parties listed in the proposal until the entry into force of the new europol regulation. i supported the decision of the director and the management board of europol not to open any negotiations on the conclusion of operational agreements with the countries listed in the draft council decision, if the latter were adopted, as some of the countries mentioned in the draft council decision do not ensure an adequate level of data protection and cannot guarantee the fundamental right to the protection of personal data. any exchange of personal data with third countries or international organisations shall be subject to strict security safeguards relating to the protection of privacy and fundamental rights.
in writing. − i have endorsed the proposal for a european research infrastructure consortium as it aims to facilitate the establishment and operation of a european research infrastructure on a non-economic basis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a general framework for the european funds, which aims to increase the impact of european fund funding. the european union's cohesion policy will receive €325 billion from the european regional development, social and cohesion funds over the period 2014-2020. the aim is to reduce the administrative burden on the funds and to encourage investment in innovation, research, energy efficiency and smes. it also seeks to involve local and regional partners more in decision-making. i believe that the reform of cohesion policy after 2013 is necessary to ensure a sustainable recovery of the eu economy and to promote competitiveness. i support the proposals to simplify and make more flexible the rules for implementing the funds and to create more robust management and control systems for the funds.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because the continuing economic and financial crisis and the related uncertainties have forced the need to consolidate national budgets to innovate and to increase the impact of available funding. it has long been established that cohesion policy, through its instruments, namely the structural funds (european regional development fund and european social fund) and the cohesion fund, provides added value as an indispensable investment instrument for effective economic growth and job creation, targeting investment needs in all regions. this policy has not only contributed to reducing disparities between member states and regions, but also to economic recovery and development in the union as a whole. the same applies to the agricultural development fund and the fisheries fund. we need better regulation, further simplification of implementation rules, transparency and flexibility, a new generation of indicators to assess the quality and performance of the projects funded. the most appropriate and effective policy framework is needed to boost growth and employment and thus provide the necessary confidence in the current economic outlook.
in writing. − in support of this document, i would like to draw attention to the problems that have emerged in the implementation of the previous multiannual financial perspective: it is necessary to simplify the allocation of funds to similar projects financed from different sources. for example, funds not used for energy efficiency improvements in residential buildings are used, where appropriate, for energy efficiency improvements in public buildings.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the european social fund. over the last ten years, cohesion policy has brought about a number of changes - contributing to economic growth, creating about a million new jobs, investing in training and creating some 800 000 small and medium-sized enterprises. in the context of the economic and financial crisis, the role of cohesion policy should be further enhanced and focused on economic growth and the promotion of eu competitiveness. it is necessary to make more efficient use of eu funds by focusing investment on smes, innovation and energy efficiency. i support the proposals put forward, which would replace the current 22.1% of the cohesion policy support for the european social fund, which is allocated to 25% of the total. increased funding from this fund is necessary to address the consequences of the crisis. it is essential to develop an employment and social innovation programme to increase labour mobility in the eu, combat social exclusion and facilitate the entrepreneurship of displaced workers by providing them with microfinance for the creation of businesses. i agree that at least 20% of the fund's allocation in each of the ngos should go towards promoting social inclusion and combating poverty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, after long negotiations, agreement has finally been reached on the future financial perspective of the european social fund. this timely agreement, thanks to the lithuanian presidency, is of great importance to people who have been out of work for a long time or who have lost their jobs as a result of the crisis, as it means that the funds needed for training and retraining will reach them as planned, as early as january next year. the purpose of the european social fund is to invest in workers, young people and jobseekers, so that in the future financial perspective the fund will focus on promoting sustainable and quality employment. the aim of the project is to improve the quality of life of the people of the region and to promote the development of a culture of peace and reconciliation, based on the principles of non-violence, non-discrimination and respect for human rights. the budget for the european social fund for the next seven years is set at 75 billion.
in writing. − i supported the proposal as the european social fund (esf) is making some significant progress in 2014-2020 which the european parliament should support in order to effectively help europeans adapt to labour market changes by co-financing training projects and employment subsidy programmes. the european social fund, the european union's main instrument for promoting employment, was established by the treaty of rome in 1957. since its inception, its aim has been to support the geographical and occupational mobility of workers. in the current crisis, it is crucial to prioritise social cohesion and esf investments: social inclusion through employment, upskilling and employment. the four main thematic objectives set out in the commission's proposal for the esf for the period 2014-2020 will be: increase employment and labour mobility, invest in education, skills, qualifications and lifelong learning, increase social inclusion and the fight against poverty and improve institutional capacity and deliver effective public administration.
in writing. − with the economies of many eu countries recovering from the crisis (and some still recovering from recession), eu support for the eu's poorest citizens and their ability to enter (or re-enter) the labour market as quickly as possible is important. i therefore support the provisions governing the european social fund.
in writing. − the european social fund promotes employment and social inclusion as its main goals. more specifically, the european social fund seeks to achieve this through four objectives: promoting employment and labour mobility, investing in education and training for various skills and life-long learning, promoting social inclusion and fighting against poverty as well as discrimination, and enhancing the ability of public authorities to act and making public administration more efficient. i fully support the proposal by élisabeth morin-chartier, as the agreement is highly satisfactory and includes the main ideas of progressive socialists and democrats. this agreement raised the european social fund budget by a minimum of 20% for combating poverty and social exclusion. other important achievements in the agreement include: measuring how projects on social inclusion impact people, creating five main investment concerns instead of four, adding asylum seekers and refugees for social inclusion, and bringing up the involvement of various social partners and ngos. i believe in the nature of this proposal, because it focuses on the most vulnerable in society and includes different methods to aid this group of people.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the european regional development fund and investment for growth and jobs. the european union's cohesion policy will receive €325 billion from the european regional development, social and cohesion funds over the period 2014-2020. the aim is to reduce the administrative burden on the funds and to encourage investment in innovation, research, energy efficiency and smes. it also seeks to involve local and regional partners more in decision-making. i believe that the reform of cohesion policy after 2013 is necessary to ensure a sustainable recovery of the eu economy and to promote competitiveness. i support the proposals to simplify and make more flexible the rules for implementing the funds and to create more robust management and control systems for the funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the eu needs to strengthen its economic and social cohesion by correcting the imbalances between its regions. the european regional development fund supports regional and local development by co-financing investments in research and technological development and innovation, the fight against climate change and environmental protection, business support for small and medium-sized enterprises, services of general economic interest, telecommunications, energy and transport infrastructure, health, education and social infrastructure and sustainable urban development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the european regional development fund and investment for growth and jobs. the european union's cohesion policy will receive €325 billion from the european regional development, social and cohesion funds over the period 2014-2020. the aim is to reduce the administrative burden on the funds and to encourage investment in innovation, research, energy efficiency and smes. it also seeks to involve local and regional partners more in decision-making. i believe that the reform of cohesion policy after 2013 is necessary to ensure a sustainable recovery of the eu economy and to promote competitiveness. i support the proposals to simplify and make more flexible the rules for implementing the funds and to create more robust management and control systems for the funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as cohesion policy is the main eu investment instrument to support the priorities set out in the eu's europe 2020 strategy. european territorial cooperation is one of the objectives of cohesion policy and provides a framework for the implementation of joint actions between different member states or between member states and neighbouring non-eu regions and for policy exchanges between national, regional and local actors. this is all the more important given that problems in member states and regions increasingly transcend national and regional boundaries, and therefore require joint cooperation actions at the appropriate territorial level. in addition, european territorial cooperation will be able to make a significant contribution to the objective of territorial cohesion as set out in the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the european cohesion fund. the european union's cohesion policy will receive €325 billion from the european regional development, social and cohesion funds over the period 2014-2020. the aim is to reduce the administrative burden on the funds and to encourage investment in innovation, research, energy efficiency and smes. it also seeks to involve local and regional partners more in decision-making. i believe that the reform of cohesion policy after 2013 is necessary to ensure a sustainable recovery of the eu economy and to promote competitiveness. i support the proposals to simplify and make more flexible the rules for implementing the funds and to create more robust management and control systems for the funds.
in writing. − the cohesion fund is an important source of funding for many eu member states (including lithuania) to ensure that the quality of life rises towards the eu average. i therefore expect the national authorities responsible for the use of eu funds to implement only projects that contribute to improving the quality of life as well as other objectives: sustainable economic development, reducing youth unemployment.
in writing. − i agreed to the proposal because one of the most important improvements relates to the authorisation process for the creation of an egtc. the aim is to achieve simplification, legal certainty and flexibility in the application of the rules, reducing red tape for the egtc and its prospective members. member states will have to ensure that clear, effective and transparent authorisations for the creation of new egtcs are granted within a set timeframe. in addition, the new regulation will clearly distinguish between the statutes and the agreement. the provisions on the recruitment of staff of the egtc will also be explained. the etbt will be open to all public undertakings providing public services (services of general economic interest), including those governed by private law. a clearer, more precise and more understandable definition of third-party involvement is proposed. neighbouring countries of the eu, including neighbouring countries of the outermost regions and the overseas territories. these simplified and clarified rules will help to provide greater legal certainty and create greater incentives for future partners to participate more actively in territorial cooperation within the eu and between regions of member states and third countries.
in writing. − i abstained on this document. i agree that women's participation and representation should be encouraged and there should be no discrimination on grounds of sex. i also fully support the principles of transparent recruitment. secondly, any involvement of women, like men, in the management of enterprises, in the composition of boards, must be based primarily on the principles of their competence, know-how, knowledge and equal competition. an artificially established quota system does not necessarily impose the obligation to select the most competent candidate. priority for the selection of a candidate on the basis of his qualifications, rather than priority on the basis of sex, must remain the decisive factor. i believe that this is the only way to ensure the competitive and stable operation and effective management of large eu companies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a key information document on investment products, which aims to enhance consumer protection in financial services. lack of transparency and low risk awareness have resulted in inappropriate investment and insurance products being sold to consumers across the eu. in july 2012, the commission presented a package of legislation proposing new consumer-friendly investment information standards, stricter standards for advice and certain rules for investment funds to make them safer. properly regulated consumer-oriented retail markets are essential to restore european consumer confidence and to promote economic growth. i support the suggestions made to provide the consumer with indicative scenarios of future performance based on a multi-factor analysis, as well as to inform the consumer of the impact of the investment product in terms of environmental, social and governance criteria.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as it aims to increase the transparency of the investment market for retail investors. retail investment products, including investment funds, retail structured products and certain types of insurance contracts used for investment purposes, are an essential means of meeting the savings and investment needs of eu citizens. retail investment products are becoming increasingly complex and difficult to understand from a technical point of view. citizens therefore face difficulties in evaluating and comparing these products in order to make appropriate and well-informed decisions about the financial products they buy. in recent years, retail investors have lost money invested in products for which the risks involved were not obvious or understood by those investors, in particular because of the provision of unclear, insufficient and incorrect information. this proposal lays down clearer rules and obligations for financial institutions as regards the key information they must disclose in order to better understand and facilitate comparisons between products. the proposal also provides for the powers of the competent authorities to impose administrative sanctions and measures on financial institutions in cases of breach of the obligations laid down in this legal instrument.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as rural development is an important part of the sustainable development of the regions of the european union. the european agricultural fund for rural development is not only linked to the common agricultural policy but also closely linked to the european union's objective of strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union. it is important to make the best and most efficient use of the eu's limited financial resources for sustainable rural development and thus improve the well-being of the local population. an approach to inclusive and participatory development in rural areas can bring real prosperity.
in writing. − rural development one of the elements of the eu's agricultural policy. while supporting the overall concept of a sustainable agricultural policy, i would like to point out that more flexible arrangements could be made for the reallocation of funds between the individual agricultural policy elements (frameworks).
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution setting out the objectives, measures and financing of the cap for the period 2014-2020. the milk quotas will expire as of 2015 and the sugar quota system is to be abolished on 30 september 2017, as indicated in the 2005 sugar reform, in order to allow the sector additional time to adapt. this will ensure greater competitiveness of eu producers both on the domestic and global markets (as eu exports are restricted by the world trade organisation's rules on quotas). private storage aid for white sugar will continue to be available after the end of the quota period. new safeguards will also be introduced for all sectors to allow the commission to take urgent action in the event of a single market disruption, such as the measures taken during the e. coli crisis of may-july 2011. these measures will be financed from the crisis reserve, which is financed by reducing direct payments annually. the funds not used for crisis measures will be returned to farmers next year. the school fruit and milk scheme will be continued in 2014-2020 with an increase in funding from eur 90 million to eur 150 million per year.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the common organisation of agricultural markets is an extremely important part of the cap and is given high priority in the reform currently under way. the reform aims to define the further organisation of the individual cap markets, such as sugar, wine, olive oil, etc. the proposals shall seek to address all sectors of the cap and ensure that the financial interests of the union are respected. as the cap becomes more complex over time, the future cap needs to provide for better regulation and a significant reduction in the bureaucratic burden on farmers. any unjustified and excessive administrative burden and costs for national authorities should be avoided, in particular in view of the consolidation of member states' budgets and the lack of resources. the budget must be used in a targeted manner to ensure the sound management of union funds in pursuit of the objective of ensuring that the cap's multifunctional nature delivers the most important public goods. the european parliament has succeeded in providing farmers' organisations with additional tools to help farmers cope with market fluctuations and to strengthen farmers' power to negotiate the price of production. for example, the list of sectors in which farmers' organisations will be able to negotiate supply contracts without infringing competition rules will be extended. stronger producer organisations should help improve the economic support to farmers, but should avoid becoming a cartel.
in writing. - i voted for this regulation. as from next year, the allocation of direct payments to member states and to farmers in the member states will no longer be based on historical reference payments. it was agreed that those countries where the average payment (eur per hectare) is currently below 90% of the eu average will gradually receive more funds (increased by one third of the difference between the current amount and 90% of the eu average). all member states will have reached the minimum level by 2019 at the latest. this is good news for lithuanian farmers, who will receive increased direct payments from next year. transitional provisions for rural development financing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the reformed eu budget and provisions for the common agricultural policy (cap) for 2014-2020. during this period, the eu will focus more on environmental protection, make aid more equitable and help farmers to face market challenges. the new cap will ensure a better balance between food safety and the environment, help farmers meet the challenges of the future and be fairer. the ep's win additional support for young farmers who can expect an additional 25% of direct payments for land area of at least 25 and at most 90 hectares. more support is also provided for small farmers, while large farmers receiving more than €150 000 will have to accept at least a 5% reduction in support above that amount. parliament has ensured a fairer distribution of aid among eu countries. by 2020, farmers in all eu countries should receive at least 72% of the eu average of direct payments. in addition, almost a third of direct payments to the eu member state will have to be linked to environmental measures: crop diversification, maintenance of existing perennial grasses and the creation of ecological zones on agricultural land. the new rules will prevent the duplication of funding for these measures from different sources of eu support, and farmers who fail to adapt to these measures will not only lose their support but may also be penalised.
in writing. − this regulation is one of the documents governing the new eu agricultural policy based on sustainable growth. i agree with the view that measures to ensure sustainable agriculture (so-called 'greening measures') are necessary to ensure a high level of environmental protection, but that action must also be taken to avoid an additional administrative burden for farmers. it is also important to ensure that the same level of payments is achieved as soon as possible for farmers in all eu member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation. rural development policy will continue to follow the current basic concept of rural development for the next seven years: member states or regions will continue to draw up their multiannual programmes on the basis of existing measures at eu level to meet the needs of their areas. the new regulation sets out six priorities: promoting knowledge transfer and innovation; increasing the competitiveness of all types of agricultural activities and sustainable forest management; supporting the organisation of the food chain, including processing and marketing, and risk management; restoring, preserving and enhancing ecosystems; promoting resource efficiency and the transition to a low-carbon economy; and promoting social inclusion, poverty reduction and economic development in rural areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as it appears that the reformed cap will not be fully implemented by 1 january 2014. therefore, transitional rules are needed to define the technical measures to ensure a smooth adaptation to the new conditions while ensuring the continuity of the different forms of cap support. in the case of direct payments, it is necessary to allow sufficient time for the member states, their paying agencies and farmers to be well prepared and fully informed of the new rules well in advance of their application. the transitional rules provide for a procedure for external convergence and flexibility between the two pillars of the cap. in the field of agricultural development, transitional rules are a common practice to establish rules in the interim between two programming periods and to determine how existing measures will be continued in the new programming period, including their financing from new funds. a link between two successive programming periods is necessary. moreover, transitional rules are necessary to ensure that member states continue to make new commitments in 2014 even after the current transitional resources have been exhausted. these transitional rules also include a flexibility mechanism allowing member states to transfer funds between the two pillars of the cap.
in writing. − i supported the rapporteur's recommendation to reject this protocol and to negotiate a new protocol with the commission, which would take full account of the provisions of the western and central pacific fisheries commission (wcpfc) and the nsw, to which kiribati belongs. the protocol is not based on the lpd, is a serious violation of the wcpfc relevant rpa rules. it also distorts the market in terms of fishing rights and deprives kiribati and the region of much-needed revenue. the protocol may undermine the efforts of small island developing states to manage the exploitation of tuna resources and to increase their revenue. it therefore does not contribute to the sustainable management of tuna in the western and central pacific.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the location of the seats of the institutions of the european union. the eu treaty provides for the ep's headquarters to be in strasbourg, where as many as 12 plenary sessions are held each year. however, the lisbon treaty provides for the right of parliament to initiate amendments to the eu treaty. we in the european parliament agree that the principles of a policy of savings, efficiency and ecology must be respected. many member states, with their strict austerity policies, are rational in wasting money on travel between brussels and strasbourg. the estimated additional cost of the geographical location of the ep's premises is as high as €156 to €204 million (10% of the annual eu budget). i agree with the conclusions of the rapporteurs that parliament's ability to organise its activities in a modern and appropriate manner is essential for it to fulfil the functions conferred on it by the treaties and to meet the expectations of its constituents, and that it should therefore initiate the normal procedure for the revision of the treaties, which would give parliament the right to decide on its own matters relating to its internal organisation and timetable, including the question of the location of its seat.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the location of the seats of the institutions of the european union. the aim of the proposal is to amend the eu treaties in such a way that the european parliament (ep) is allowed to decide on its own seat. the cost of ep travel between brussels and strasbourg is about €200 million, or 10% of the parliament's annual budget. each plenary session brings about 5 000 workers, who lose a full day's work travelling. in addition, the parliament buildings in strasbourg are not used 89% of the time, but they need to be heated constantly and staffed throughout the year. the amendment of the current eu treaty is necessary to enable the ep to decide where and when to hold its meetings, and i therefore support it. the treaty would save considerable resources and enable parliament to fulfil its democratic functions fully and properly. having one seat would not only make parliament more efficient, but also save money.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the european parliament calls for it to be given the right to decide where and when ep meetings are to be held. currently, an article in the eu treaty, which can only be amended by the unanimity of all eu countries, stipulates that the ep's headquarters are in strasbourg, where twelve plenary sessions are held per year. although the seat is decided by common accord between the eu member states, the treaty of lisbon gave parliament the power to initiate amendments to the eu treaty. in the resolution adopted, the ep committed itself to initiating a treaty amendment which would allow it to decide on its own jobs. i believe that the european parliament would work more efficiently, more economically and more environmentally by having one seat.
in writing. − we constantly talk about the need to reduce costs, optimise conditions, and strive for sustainable growth. unfortunately, the european parliament (ep) does not always follow these guidelines. it is clear that the different ep seats, with committees working in brussels and plenary sessions in strasbourg, makes the work of the ep more difficult, unnecessarily increases expenditure, and is also criticised by eu citizens who are unhappy with this use of eu budget funds. i am glad that we are returning to this debate in this term of office and, in supporting this report, i hope that the right decision will soon be taken on the ep's place of work.
in writing. − the two seats of the european parliament that were considered a symbol of reconciliation in 1950 are now seen as a symbol of waste. maintaining two seats of the european parliament costs more than eur 150 million annually. it excessive to maintain a second building when only 11% of the year, or 48 days, is spent in plenary. the eu, which is supposed to be a leader in sustainability, wastes about 19 000 tons of co2 commuting back and forth between brussels and strasbourg each month. currently the european parliament is the only directly elected institution that does not have the power to decide on its own seat. parliament must have the right to decide where and when it would like to meet by a simple majority approach. a single seat is the most economical decision for the european parliament, and this report allows the decision of the parliament’s fate to be put into its own hands through an amendment of the current treaties. europe must move forward, and a shuffling parliament between two seats is not a successful plan for the future. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report because, for the first time, the 'horizon 2020' (h2020) programme brings together in a single programme the different elements of the eu's overall strategic funding for research and innovation, which have hitherto lacked a common perspective. horizon 2020 is a €80 billion programme for investment in research and innovation in the european union, running from 2014 to 2020. for the first time, horizon 2020 brings together all eu research and innovation funding in one place. more than ever, the focus is on turning scientific breakthroughs into innovative products and services that provide business opportunities and improve people's lives. at the same time, simplification of rules and procedures significantly reduces the administrative burden in order to attract more top-class researchers and more diverse innovative companies.
in writing. − i have endorsed the proposal for the 'horizon 2020' (h2020) programme as it brings together for the first time in a single framework programme the different elements of the eu's strategic funding for research and innovation which have hitherto lacked a common perspective: the later versions of the seventh framework programme and the competitiveness and innovation framework programme together with the european institute of innovation and technology. the financial and economic crisis has exposed the shortcomings of the european production model. in order to revitalise europe's economy and emerge stronger from the crisis, the h2020 strategy focuses on research and innovation as a means to transition to a knowledge-based economy that delivers more balanced, diverse and sustainable growth. the second variable on which our competitiveness depends, as mentioned, is human resources: without scientists, there is no r & d that underpins the economic growth we seek. research and innovation are crucial to finding and applying effective responses to europe's major social challenges. at the same time, finding solutions to these challenges can make a significant contribution to economic growth and increased competitiveness.
in writing. - i agree. horizon 2020 aims to create a european research area by promoting the mobility of knowledge, scientists and technology. the ep is calling for an increase in funding for this programme. the programme will promote public-private partnerships, innovation, attract, develop and retain talent, and will seek to attract the widest possible range of partners and civil society. the eu's growing innovation capacity will contribute to the development of a knowledge-based society and a sustainable, competitive economy. at the same time, i call on the member states to further increase their allocations to this area, paying sufficient attention not only to the fundamental sciences but also to the applied sciences. i also believe that more efforts are needed to address the questions raised about the continued participation of some long-standing partners third countries in horizon 2020.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it sets out the rules for participation and dissemination in the framework of the framework programme for research and innovation 'horizon 2020' (2014-2020). parliament welcomes some of the rules proposed by the commission, such as the wider application of the usual accounting practices of beneficiaries, a single set of rules, lower requirements in terms of time recording and the inclusion of vat in eligible costs. however, parliament also proposes a number of improvements to the rules. one of them is to provide for the possibility for participants in the programme to claim compensation for indirect costs on the basis of the costs actually incurred.
in writing. − i voted in favour as this is a common set of rules an important simplification factor for the horizon 2020 programme. the rules for participation and dissemination in the 'horizon 2020' programme are one of the components of the package of proposals establishing the eu's research and innovation programme 2014-2020. it lays down rules under which different types of funding may be granted to certain entities carrying out research and related support activities and the dissemination and exploitation of the results of those research activities. the objective of horizon 2020 is to drive a greater innovation shift in europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it expresses parliament's position on the strategic agenda of the european institute of innovation and technology. the european institute of innovation and technology was established in 2008 to contribute to sustainable economic growth and competitiveness by strengthening the innovation capacity of the eu and its member states. the institute is not only a direct innovation vehicle but also an educational one, thus providing an educational platform for eu research and innovation policy. this strategic agenda for the institute, endorsed by parliament, provides that the eit contributes to the scientific basis for innovation by promoting international mobility at disciplinary, sectoral and country level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because it is the only measure in the 'horizon 2020' programme which places a strong emphasis on education. the eit should become a world-class provider of postgraduate education, with its high-level training, mobility, entrepreneurial experience where specific innovation is implemented and an unconventional paradigm for higher education. the sid is about promoting and delivering the eit's educational mission. objective to develop and train talented people whose skills, knowledge and mindset are needed in a global society and knowledge economy. in this sense, the marie skłodowska-curie fellowship programme should be developed as part of the eit's activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as it supports the commission's proposal to integrate the european institute of innovation and technology into the 'horizon 2020' programme, defining its budget and scope of activities. the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) was established in 2008 to implement the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and to strengthen europe's innovation capacity. it was then decided that europe must find ways to develop its innovation capacity in order to recover from the crises it faces. the eit is the first attempt in the eu to integrate the three dimensions of the knowledge triangle higher education, research and innovation. the eit's main function is to promote closer cooperation between universities, research centres and businesses, with the aim of bridging the gap between research, education and business activities and strengthening the eu's innovation capacity.
in writing. − the european institute of innovation and technology (eit) was established in 2008 to implement the lisbon strategy for growth and jobs and to strengthen europe's innovation capacity. i supported this proposal because the eit aims to integrate the three parts of the knowledge triangle in order to promote competence, which accelerates innovation. the eit is the eit as the implementing instrument of the horizon 2020 programme. by providing for the activities of the knowledge and innovation communities (kics), the eit promotes closer cooperation between universities, research centres and businesses, with the aim of bridging the gap between research, education and business activities and strengthening the eu's innovation capacity. it is proposed to allocate a budget of approximately eur 3 billion to the eit and to integrate the eit's field of activity into the horizon 2020 programme. the budget would be divided into two parts: the first would be for the merger of existing kics and the establishment of three new kics in 2014, the second, taking into account the review carried out at the end of 2017, would be for the continuation of the activities of the existing kics and the establishment of three more kics.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it supports the creation of the cosme programme. this programme will be used to finance measures supporting entrepreneurship and innovation and promoting the development and growth of small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the new multiannual financial perspective. the global competitiveness of european small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) is undermined by market, policy and institutional weaknesses, such as limited access to finance, market access and regulatory burdens. european smes are less productive and grow less quickly than companies elsewhere in the world, and they have more difficulty adapting to change than larger european companies. these difficulties were further exacerbated by the economic crisis of 2008, which disproportionately affected smes. for all these reasons, i welcome the proposal to establish the cosme programme, as it is the only eu spending programme specifically designed to promote smes.
in writing. − i agreed, as environment and business development are important sources of growth and job creation across the eu. the conditions for enterprises, in particular smes, and for citizens wishing to set up businesses must therefore be improved. several key areas need to be focused on that could help to achieve this objective: encouraging the uptake of new competitive business models and the cooperation of smes in new value chains and new markets; improving access to finance for smes in the development and start-up phases; reduce and simplify barriers that are time-consuming for smes; to increase the promotion of the cosme programme and the dissemination of information on the funds available to smes, so that smes are aware of the financial opportunities available to them; to finance the european enterprise network, in particular to identify eu programmes that could increase the competitiveness and growth of enterprises in the single market; support smes by providing advice and information on issues such as market entry barriers, business opportunities, standards and intellectual property rights in priority third countries; to promote the provision of information on digital services; in order to ensure that banks use funds and guarantees to increase lending to smes, a monitoring system should be in place.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it amends regulation (ec) no 223/2009 on european statistics. these amendments are necessary because of the recent detection of serious weaknesses, in particular in the statistical quality management system, which have led to inaccurate and in some cases incorrect statistics being published. reliable and accurate european statistics serve two essential purposes: they provide a basis for political decision-making and a means of assessing the state of the economy and society. we need to restore public confidence in statistics, and i therefore agree that the independence of statistical authorities from possible political pressure at national and union level must be guaranteed. one way of doing this is to remove the political aspects from the statistical data production process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal because reliable and accurate european statistics serve two essential purposes as a public good: they are the basis for political decision-making and a means of assessing the state of the economy and society, providing confidence to other governments and markets. unfortunately, events in recent years have shaken public and market confidence. misleading and false statistics can increase political and economic disorder. we need to restore public confidence in statistics. they say that when statistics are politicized, they quickly devalue them. it is therefore essential to remove political aspects from the statistical data production process. for example, this report proposes to prohibit member states from postponing the publication of periodic data. the transition to a european statistical system ensuring professional independence, adequate resources and strict supervision, including sanctions for breaches of quality requirements, is encouraged.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it is the parliament's position on the establishment of the environment and climate action programme (life). over the past 20 years, life has been a tremendous success as a tool for addressing environmental and climate-related issues facing european citizens. it is a small but targeted and effective measure, highly appreciated by local, regional and national public administrations, non-governmental organisations, research institutes and smes. in its report, the european parliament calls for an increase in the overall budget of the programme and for higher co-financing rates for eu environmental projects, which would increase the eu's contribution to the overall budget of the funded projects.
in writing. − financing sustainable environmental and climate projects an important element in the implementation of eu environmental policy. however, i would also like to point out that the principle of environmental integration must also be taken into account when implementing projects financed from other sources: all eu-funded projects must comply with the principles of sustainable growth and have no negative impact on the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it expresses parliament's position on the adoption of the regulation establishing the european union programme of action in the field of taxation for the period 2014-2020 (fiscalis 2020 programme). the objective of the 'fiscalis 2020' programme is to encourage cooperation between national tax authorities, to help maximise their efficiency and to avoid discrepancies that could hamper the functioning of the eu internal market. it will contribute to networking, joint action and training of tax professionals and will be supported by advanced it systems to ensure effective exchange of information between national tax authorities. the objective of the 'fiscalis 2020' programme is to protect the financial interests of the eu and the member states and to improve the capacity of tax authorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because the objective of the fiscalis 2020 programme, like its predecessors, is to encourage cooperation between national tax authorities, to help maximise their efficiency and to avoid discrepancies that could hinder the functioning of the internal market. it would contribute to networking, joint action and training of tax professionals and support advanced it systems to ensure effective exchange of information between national tax authorities. the objective of the 'fiscalis 2020' programme would be to protect the financial interests of the eu and the member states and to improve the capacity of tax authorities. the commission proposes to pay particular attention to the fight against fraud, the reduction of administrative burdens and cooperation with third parties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it expresses parliament's position on the regulation defining the european union's customs action programme 2014-2020 (customs 2020). the customs union shall protect the financial interests of the union and of the member states which levy customs duties, levies and taxes. it requires that goods originating in third countries are allowed to move freely within the union only if they comply with union law. this means that large trade flows (7 customs declarations processed every second) have to be managed on a daily basis and customs have to strike a balance between improving the trading conditions of businesses and protecting citizens from threats to their safety and security. this is only possible if the customs administrations of the member states cooperate intensively and efficiently with each other, with other public authorities and with trade and other third parties. the programme will support union customs cooperation, in particular with a view to building human resource networks and capacity building, as well as enhancing it capacity. the proposed 'customs 2020' programme will mainly support customs cooperation between each other and with other relevant parties.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the new customs challenges and the need to protect citizens from the risks to safety and security posed by international trade in goods require greater attention to harmonise and standardise customs control procedures and to combat fraud.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it contributes to the revision of the eu directive on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii). directive cost ii established a modern, risk-based european system for the supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings. these new rules are essential to ensure that the insurance sector is safe and sound, able to provide sustainable insurance products and supports the real economy through long-term investment and greater stability. that revision of the directive is necessary to take account of the new system of insurance supervision, in particular the establishment of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority in 2011 and the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − i have supported the proposal as, in order to avoid excessive legislative obligations on member states under directive 2009/138/ec and subsequently under the new supervisory framework provided for in the proposal for a second framework directive, it is appropriate to postpone the date of transposition and application of directive 2009/138/ec, giving supervisory authorities and insurance and reinsurance undertakings sufficient time to prepare for the application of that new framework.
in writing. − the doha development agenda sets ambitious targets opening markets to agricultural and food products, industrial goods and services, reducing trade-distorting subsidies and illegal forms of aid, and using more effective market protection instruments. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the implementation of these measures will enable us to achieve a fair and common rules-based trading system which will improve relations between states and provide a rational solution to trade disputes between countries.
in writing. − it is essential that the commitment to long-term benefits, derived from the principle of multilateralism, is properly respected. free and fair trade must be promoted at all times. i believe that trade liberalisation is a very important tool for sustainable economic growth and development. however, trade liberalisation must be accompanied by the implementation of appropriate accompanying policies. the updated wto framework should be developed with due consideration to the needs of smes in international trade. in particular, the rules on the conclusion of trading arrangements should be simplified, as should the system of international arbitration tribunals. it is also essential that greater attention is paid at wto level to trade and investment barriers faced by the service sectors. i believe that more efforts should be made to conclude the long-drawn-out doha round on the implementation of the development mandate.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i believe that the promotion of entrepreneurship and education needs to be given special attention at this time. i support the measures proposed in the resolution to promote entrepreneurship at national and european level and which should cover all types of enterprises. the successful implementation of the objectives of this plan requires, in particular, coordination between the authorities at supranational, national, regional and local level. employers offering training to low-skilled or unskilled workers need to be encouraged. i believe that the eu and the member states should do more to improve the entrepreneurial culture in europe, so that it becomes more attractive again. in this context, it is necessary to continuously improve the business environment and the basic conditions. particular attention shall be paid to smes. it is essential that the measures envisaged for smes are properly balanced and take due account of the specificities of these entities. in order to promote the development of smes, it is necessary to ensure adequate access to finance.
in writing. −in a changing, multipolar world, faced with conventional and unconventional threats, economic difficulties and limited national defence budgets, the eu has much to do to ensure that it is able to fulfil its role as a global actor in self-sustainingly enhancing the security of the eu and its citizens. in this resolution, the european parliament sets out concrete proposals for further steps to exploit the potential of new contracts, increase the effectiveness, visibility and impact of the csdp, develop defence capabilities and strengthen the defence industry. the eu's role as the independent guarantor of security requires a common commitment, mutual understanding and genuine solidarity within the eu.
in writing. − the assessment and strengthening of europe's role in the world is one of the key priorities. security and defence issues should be given due weight. in this context, it is essential that the common security and defence policy is effective and visible, while at the same time respecting the sovereign rights of the member states. moreover, the eu must not become a global military actor acting independently, completely detached from nato. i believe that it is necessary to maintain and strengthen closer links with the national parliaments of the member states in order to support dialogue and exchange of views on security and defence matters. it is also essential to have a concrete action plan. the union should also continue to encourage increased investment and enhanced cooperation in the field of security and defence, taking into account the opportunities.
in writing. − european defence industry and technology is one of the key elements of the csdp. without a strong industrial and technological base, the eu's objectives in the field of csr are hardly achievable. one of the main challenges is the decline in investment defence and the growing vulnerability of the sector. there is a tendency for industrial firms to adapt to the changing situation by focusing more on exports to third countries that do not always meet the criteria of democracy and human rights or by shifting production outside the eu. in addition, it involves the transfer of technology, knowledge and intellectual property rights relevant to security. the ep calls on the member states, the egf and the commission to take measures to respond to the growing vulnerability of the rdp sector in the future, as there is an increasing risk that rdp activities will be controlled and constrained by third parties with different strategic interests.
in writing. mr president in recent years, there has been a marked increase in the number and magnitude of natural disasters. in the future, such events are likely to be even more sudden and complex, with longer-lasting effects. this has created an urgent need for coordination and a transition to an effective european disaster management mechanism based on an integrated approach. the eu should support, coordinate and complement the actions of the member states in the field of civil protection in order to improve the effectiveness of the systems for preventing natural disasters. closer involvement of regions, cities and municipalities is necessary, as their local authorities play an important role in preventing and responding to emergencies. that's why we can't ignore them. it should be recalled that the basic principle of civil protection should be to solve problems at the lowest possible level. particular attention should be paid to the regions bordering the eu's external borders and the outermost regions, which are at high risk of natural disasters, including nuclear power plant failures, and where interventions are much more complex and often require assistance from third parties. account should also be taken of the need to provide assistance in a rapid and flexible manner in cases where the scale of disasters exceeds the response capacity of the affected member state or its regional or local administration authorities. therefore, with regard to eu funds, there is a need to link the civil protection mechanism more effectively to the solidarity fund.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to define and adopt a justice programme for 2014-2020 and to create a genuine area of justice by promoting judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. the estimated budget of the programme for the period 2014-2020 is eur 472 million. this justice programme, which aims at simplicity and rationality, will replace the three existing programmes: the civil justice programme, the criminal justice programme and the 'drug prevention and information' programme. i agree that the new programme should promote the effective, comprehensive and consistent application of union law in the area of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, facilitate access to justice and prevent drug supply and demand. it is important to provide for the possibility of developing instruments to encourage and support member states' action in the field of crime prevention and to provide for the training of judges and notaries.
in writing. − i voted in favour, as the aim is to define and adopt a justice programme for 2014-2020 and to create a genuine area of justice by promoting judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. the justice programme, which aims at simplicity and rationality, replaces the three existing programmes, namely the civil justice programme (jciv), the criminal justice programme (jpen) and the drug prevention and information programme (dpip). the new programme focuses on three specific objectives: promoting the effective, comprehensive and consistent application of union law in the field of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters; facilitating access to justice; and preventing and reducing drug supply and demand. training for judges and notaries is also provided for.
in writing. − there is a growing need for eu member states to cooperate more closely in the area of justice. the three eu programmes currently in force will be combined into one, the 2014-2020 justice programme. the new programme aims to make eu law more consistent, to facilitate access to justice, and to prevent and reduce drug supply and demand. i hope that by supporting this report, i will ensure that resources are used rationally in the area of justice and that obstacles to cooperation in civil and criminal matters are reduced.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report. ensuring respect for fundamental rights and respect for general principles is essential for the establishment of a european area of justice and the promotion of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. i believe that training judges should be considered as one of the essential aspects of promoting a proper european judicial culture. in this context, training activities should be facilitated by promoting the effective, full and consistent application of union law and judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. particular attention must also be paid to the effective exercise of the right of access to justice for all. more efforts are also needed to prevent and reduce drug demand and supply. in order to achieve the objectives set, it is necessary to ensure that the programme is implemented effectively, in accordance with sound financial management, while at the same time providing effective opportunities for potential applicants to participate. in addition, it is necessary to coordinate measures, including legislation, policy initiatives and funding.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a programme on rights and citizenship, which aims to contribute to the creation of an area in which the rights of individuals as set out in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union are promoted and protected. the programme's funding for the period 2014-2020 is eur 439 million. this new programme is proposed as a continuation of the three programmes currently under way: the fundamental rights and citizenship programme, the daphne iii programme and the employment and social solidarity programme (progress) with sections on combating discrimination and diversity and gender equality. the combination of these programmes will allow for better funding in the areas of human rights, non-discrimination, data protection and citizenship. i agree that the new programme should be launched to improve access to the rights conferred by union citizenship, to promote the effective implementation of the principles of non-discrimination, to help ensure a high level of protection of personal data, to enhance respect for the rights of the child and to enable consumers and businesses to trade and buy in a credible manner in the internal market by ensuring the rights conferred by union consumer legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as it seeks to establish and adopt the commission's proposal for a programme on rights and citizenship for 2014-2020, which aims to contribute to the creation of an area in which the rights of individuals as set out in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union are promoted and protected. for the sake of simplification and rationalisation, the rights and citizenship programme is proposed as a continuation of the three programmes currently underway: the fundamental rights and citizenship programme, the daphne iii programme and the employment and social solidarity programme (progress) sections: combating discrimination and diversity and gender equality. the commission concluded from the impact assessment that the combination of these programmes will provide opportunities for better funding in the areas of human rights, non-discrimination, data protection and citizenship.
in writing. - i voted for this document. the new rights and citizenship programme for 2014-2020 extends the three programmes - the fundamental rights and citizenship programme, the daphne iii programme and the employment and social solidarity programme (progress). i believe that the 2014-2020 rights and citizenship programme offers opportunities to make better use of the free movement of persons, the internal market and other rights, while refining provisions on personal data protection, the right to information. by ensuring that the rights granted by the eu are effectively exercised, we are also strengthening the spread of democracy and citizenship.
in writing. − there is a need to focus more eu-wide on the prevention of all forms of violence, hatred, segregation and discrimination, and on the fight against bullying, harassment and intolerant behaviour. i believe that this programme will be the basis for the creation of an area in which the rights of individuals as laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union are promoted and protected. the achievement of the objectives of the programme in practice requires a combination of measures, including legislation, policy initiatives and funding. it is necessary to ensure a high level of protection of personal data and the rights of the child. the funding instruments and application procedures should be simplified and streamlined. the funds shall be distributed in such a way that no programme is affected. in addition, the scope of the programme should be extended to national, regional and local authorities and related entities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at liberalising the import of moldovan wine into the european union. the liberalisation of imports of wine will apply from 1 january 2014 and the liberalisation of imports of other goods, as set out in the eu-moldova free trade agreement initialled in vilnius on 29 november, will apply from the beginning of 2015. this year, russia banned the import of moldovan wine, citing quality violations. however, it is no secret that the ban on wine imports is politically motivated to prevent moldova from moving closer to the european union politically and economically. this document provides duty-free access to the eu market for moldovan wines and should help the country to cope with restrictions imposed by russia. this decision not only creates a free trade area between the eu and moldova, but also demonstrates the eu's strong political support for moldova's choice to move closer to the eu. it is important that the eu shows greater political will in responding to russia's unwarranted pressure on its eastern partners.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because regulation (ec) no 55/2008 provides for autonomous trade preferences (atp) for the republic of moldova, which eliminate all customs tariffs for industrial products and provide better access to the eu market for agricultural products. the period of application of the mrls in accordance with regulation (ec) no 55/2008 shall be until 31 december 2015. the application of the gsp regulation after 1 january 2013 is subject to the successful completion of certain procedures within the world trade organisation (wto). the european union has initiated these procedures and at present the time of their completion is unknown. it is therefore important to ensure unimpeded trade flows from the republic of moldova until 31 december 2015 before the wto procedures are concluded. it is also necessary to ensure legal certainty for economic operators to continue to import in compliance with the apa regulation. it is therefore necessary to provide for the continuous application of the autonomous trade preferences until their expiry date as laid down in council regulation (ec) no 55/2008.
in writing. − i support this regulation, which provides for autonomous trade preferences (atp) for the republic of moldova, eliminating all customs tariffs on industrial products and providing better access to the eu market for agricultural products. it aims to implement the agreement reached to fully liberalise trade in wine. agriculture accounts for about 40% of the moldovan economy. the wine sector is one of moldova's most important export products, employing some 300 000 people. in september, russia punished moldova by banning imports of wine in response to moldova's determination to continue its rapprochement with the eu. this regulation opens up a huge eu market for moldovan products that have lost access to traditional markets. it is important that this measure enter into force immediately. i commend the commission for its prompt and constructive response to the realities and challenges facing the eastern partnership countries with a european perspective.
in writing. - i support the proposal to liberalize bilateral trade. it should be noted that moldova has made significant progress in aligning its legislative provisions with union legislation and standards. in this context, it is necessary to support moldova's reforms and efforts in implementing the european neighbourhood policy and the eastern partnership project even more actively. in order to develop stable and long-lasting trade relations and to provide legal certainty for economic operators, all customs duties on industrial products should be abolished and access to the eu market for agricultural products should be improved. the autonomous trade preferences will facilitate access to a reliable and attractive market for moldova and ensure uninterrupted trade flows.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the protocol on cooperation in the fisheries sector of the kingdom of morocco, which will allow fishing vessels from 11 eu member states to fish in the waters of the kingdom of morocco. the previous protocol was terminated in december 2011 and since then eu vessels have not been fishing in those waters. for the lithuanian long-distance fishing fleet, moroccan waters are one of the most important fishing areas and, together with the fishing opportunities available under the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and mauritania, allow for the seasonal continuity of pelagic fisheries. in 2005-2011, lithuanian vessels caught between 16 and 45 thousand tonnes of pelagic fish per year in moroccan waters, but had to stop fishing activities in 2011 after not voting in favour of the extension of the protocol. the new protocol provides for a lower annual fee for the european union (€30 million instead of €36.1 million, i.e. 17%) and an increase in the overall quotas for each participating member state (33% compared to the previous protocols) than the previous protocol on cooperation between the eu and the kingdom of morocco in the fisheries sector. the new protocol will be in force for four years from its entry into force on january 2014. under the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement, lithuania received an annual pelagic quota of 15 520 tonnes and was the second largest eu member state in terms of its quota. under the new protocol, lithuanian vessels will receive an increased fishing quota of up to 20 693 tonnes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the signing of the fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco. some eu countries, including lithuania, do not question the benefits of such an agreement for fishermen, but opponents argue that such an agreement cannot be signed because morocco has occupied western sahara. i believe that it is necessary to sign it because an agreement allowing fishing in moroccan waters would benefit the fishermen of the member states, including lithuania, and without it the situation in the occupied western sahara would not change. the question of the occupation of western sahara is a political one and must be dealt with separately and not in the framework of a fisheries agreement. within the european union itself, there are major unresolved issues, such as the demarcation of borders with its eastern neighbours. but that does not mean that the whole of the european union has to break off relations with russia. asia, for example, has no active human rights policy, but the european union still has trade and relations with it. why should morocco be an exception? the agreement would provide morocco with €40 million per year: €30 million from the eu budget and €10 million from the shipowners. of this eur 30 million, eur 16 million would be paid by morocco for the resources, and eur 14 million would be allocated to support the moroccan fisheries sector. morocco must ensure that these millions bring direct economic benefits, creating jobs for the local population.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the signing of the protocol to the eu-morocco fisheries agreement. on 24 july 2013, the commission and the government of morocco agreed on a protocol to the eu-morocco fisheries agreement. a number of eu member states are seeking to ratify the protocol, in particular spain, portugal, france, germany, lithuania, latvia, the netherlands, ireland, poland and the united kingdom. this protocol would cover 6 categories of fisheries, including industrial and small-scale fisheries. the new protocol covers the ep's main requirements, as set out in the ep's resolution of 14 december 2011. morocco will have to ensure that this protocol brings direct benefits and benefits to the local population. the obligation to report on the economic and social impact of the protocol on employment, investment and other measurable benefits is provided for.
in writing. − i support the conclusion of this agreement, which is important from an economic, political and environmental point of view and is of particular importance for the eu's fishing fleet. the signature of this agreement will result in an increase in the overall quota for each participating member state. the eu-morocco fisheries partnership agreement will also ensure the sustainability of the stocks. we must give all eu fishermen the opportunity to engage in the activities that have been developed for many years in the waters of the kingdom of morocco. it should be noted that this fishing area is of particular importance for lithuania, as for many years lithuanian fishing vessels have been actively fishing for pelagic fish in moroccan waters. it is therefore essential that fishing vessels continue to operate successfully in this area and that fishermen are adequately protected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ratify the international labour organisation's convention on safety in the use of chemical substances at work. i support the proposal to authorise member states to ratify, in the interests of the union, those parts of chemicals convention no 170 which fall within the competence of the union. the convention is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society as a whole and must be ratified in the interests of workers' safety and health.
in writing. − i have endorsed the proposal for a council decision authorising the member states to ratify, in the interests of the union, those parts of chemicals convention no 170 which fall within the union's competence. convention no 170 is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society as a whole. in order to achieve the safety and health of workers, member states are invited to ratify convention no 170 without delay.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ratify the protocol against the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms. the international convention on transnational organised crime, adopted by the un in 2000, is the first global instrument to combat transnational organised crime and the illicit trade in firearms. the convention is further elaborated by three protocols which provide for specific measures to combat specific crimes. the european community has signed the convention and protocols on the illicit entry of migrants, on combating trafficking in human beings and on the illicit manufacturing and trafficking of firearms. this proposal seeks to ratify the protocol against the illicit manufacture of and trafficking in firearms. i support the recommendations to impose penalties for the illicit manufacture of firearms, their parts and ammunition, forging firearms markings and to provide for measures to confiscate illegally manufactured weapons. it is important that the marking of firearms at the time of their manufacture and importation be ensured by states parties to the protocol in order to identify the manufacturer, the country and the year of importation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of ratifying the protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms. the international convention on transnational organised crime, adopted by the un in 2000, is the first global instrument to combat transnational organised crime and the illicit trade in firearms. the convention is further elaborated by three protocols which provide for specific measures to combat specific crimes. the european community has signed the convention and protocols on the illicit entry of migrants, on combating trafficking in human beings and on the illicit manufacturing and trafficking of firearms. the protocol aims to prevent and combat the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts and ammunition. it recommends penalties for the illicit manufacture and trafficking of firearms, their parts and ammunition, and for the falsification of firearms markings. measures are in place to confiscate illicitly manufactured weapons.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for an eu-china compensation agreement. the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu led to the enlargement of its customs union, which obliged the eu to enter into negotiations with wto members to avoid an increase in mandatory customs duties. the issue of compensation for higher duty rates, which is usually carried out by setting a country tariff quota or increasing an existing quota, was addressed. the products covered by the eu-china countervailing agreement are mainly garlic, mushrooms, chocolate, confectionery and biscuits. the eu has so far concluded similar compensation agreements with cuba, brazil, australia, new zealand, argentina and the usa. i support the conclusion of the agreement with the people's republic of china. china is entitled to regain its previous trading rights in view of a slight deterioration of the situation due to the eu customs union enlargement with the accession of romania and bulgaria.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agreement with the people's republic of china. the people's republic of china is entitled to regain its previous trading rights in view of the slight deterioration of the situation due to the eu customs union enlargement with the accession of romania and bulgaria. the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu has led to the enlargement of its customs union. the eu was therefore obliged to enter into negotiations with wto members with a negotiating power on any acceding country's list of commitments in order to avoid an increase in mandatory duties. two issues are addressed: the compensation of higher customs tariffs, which is usually carried out by setting a country tariff quota or by increasing an existing quota; the pre-accession erga omnes tariff quota for bulgaria and romania (not country specific but applicable worldwide) must also be added to the existing eu erga omnes tariff quotas. the products covered by the eu-china countervailing agreement are mainly garlic, mushrooms, chocolate, confectionery and biscuits. the eu has so far concluded similar compensation agreements with cuba, brazil and, with parliament's approval, australia, new zealand, argentina and the usa.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to extend the eu-us memorandum of understanding to resolve the dispute over hormones in beef. this decision provided for the possibility of phasing out the us counter-sanctions on certain eu agricultural products in exchange for the introduction of an autonomous tariff quota of high-quality beef from bovine animals not raised by hormones. the parties failed to reach a lasting solution to the wto dispute and the mou expired in august 2013. the proposed updated mou provides for the use of the tariff quota for the next two years, allowing for the possibility to negotiate a clear dispute settlement by the end of 2015. if no action is taken, the eu will be able to stop applying the autonomous tariff quota of high-quality beef at zero duty and the us will have the right to re-impose sanctions on eu products with an annual value of usd 116.8 million. i support the extension and renewal of the memorandum of understanding as it provides legal clarity for economic operators and additional time to reach a final agreed solution.
in writing. − i supported the proposed extension and renewal of the memorandum of understanding, as it provides legal clarity for economic operators and additional time to reach a final agreed solution. purpose: to extend the eu-us memorandum of understanding to settle the dispute over hormones in beef. on 13 may 2009, the eu and the us signed a memorandum of understanding, which provided a final solution to the beef hormone dispute. this decision provided for the possibility of phasing out the us counter-sanctions on certain eu agricultural products in exchange for the introduction of an autonomous tariff quota of high-quality beef from bovine animals not raised by hormones. the parties failed to reach a lasting solution to the wto dispute and the mou expired in august 2013. the proposed renewed memorandum of understanding provides for a further extension of the second stage and the unchanged use of the tariff quota for a further two years, allowing for the negotiation of a clear dispute settlement by august 2015. if no action is taken, the eu will be able to stop applying the autonomous tariff quota of high-quality beef at zero duty and the us will have the right to re-impose sanctions on eu products with an annual value of usd 116.8 million.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at a new agreement between the eu and côte d'ivoire setting out fishing opportunities and the eu's financial contribution. the eu's fisheries relations with côte d'ivoire formally began in 1990 with the conclusion of the first partnership agreement. the new protocol, which will apply from 2013 to 2018, provides for fishing opportunities for eu tuna vessels. almost all of côte d'ivoire's tuna production is exported to the eu, amounting to some 55 000 tonnes per year. the eu will pay a financial contribution of eur 680 000 per year, consisting of eur 422 500 per year for access to the ivory coast exclusive economic zone and eur 257 500 per year to support the development of the ivory coast fisheries policy, i.e. to develop aquaculture, combat illegal fishing, which is particularly prevalent in the area, and modernise the catch reporting system. i support the proposal that european shipowners should employ at least 20% of seafarers from acp countries on their ships.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the new agreement between the eu and côte d'ivoire setting out the eu's fishing opportunities and financial contribution. the eu's fisheries relations with côte d'ivoire formally began in 1990 with the conclusion of the first partnership agreement. the new protocol, which will apply from 2013 to 2018, provides for fishing opportunities for eu tuna vessels and applies provisionally from 1 july 2013 pending the ep's position. this new agreement is based on the results of the final evaluation of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and côte d'ivoire (2007-2013), carried out by independent experts. the agreement is economically sound, rational, balanced and effective. the aim is to support the development of ivorian fisheries policy, i.e. to develop aquaculture, to combat illegal fishing, which is very successful in the area, and to modernise the system for reporting catches.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to extend the preferential tariff quotas for the customs import of certain fishery products into the canary islands from 2014 to 2020. the exceptional geographical situation of the canary islands in terms of supplying the local consumers with the most essential fishery products means that this sector is subject to additional costs. since 1991, the european union has partially or totally suspended the application of common customs tariff duties on imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands. council regulation (ec) no 645/2008 opened and provided for the administration of two preferential tariff quotas for certain fishery products in the canary islands until 31 december 2013. therefore, if no measures are taken, the last preferential tariff quotas will expire on 1 january 2014 and i therefore support the proposal to extend the tariff quotas.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of extending the tariff quotas for the import of certain fishery products into the canary islands for the period 2014-2020. the exceptional geographical situation of the canary islands in terms of supplying the local consumers with the most essential fishery products means that this sector is subject to additional costs. since 1991, the eu has partially or totally suspended the application of common customs tariff duties on imports of certain fishery products into the canary islands. council regulation (ec) no 645/2008 (**) opened and provided for the administration of two preferential tariff quotas for certain fishery products imported into the canary islands until 31 december 2013. therefore, in the absence of measures, the latter preferential tariff quotas will expire on 1 january 2014.
in writing. − objective to provide funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration of workers made redundant by nokia plc, nokia siemens networks and 30 of its suppliers and subcontractors in finland as a result of major structural changes in the world trading system related to globalisation. the application concerns 4 509 redundancies mainly due to the relocation of companies to non-european third countries. the assembly of mobile phones, previously carried out in the cities of sal and cluj, has now been moved to asia. the market share of 'nokia' in the mainstream mobile phone models decreased from 33% in 2010 to 24% in 2011 and continued to decrease in 2012. i support the mobilisation of eur 9 810 000 from the egf for the needs of finland in order to speed up the reintegration of 4 509 redundant workers into the labour market (training, retraining, counselling, etc.).
in writing. − i have approved funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration of workers made redundant by nokia plc, nokia siemens networks and 30 of its suppliers and subcontractors in finland as a result of major structural changes in the world trade system related to globalisation. the application concerns 4 509 redundancies in the companies nokia plc, nokia siemens networks and 30 of its suppliers and subcontractors. the main reason for the redundancies is the transfer of functions within the sector to non-european third countries. mobile phone assembly, previously carried out in the cities of sal and cluj, has now been moved to asia (china, south korea, india and vietnam, where a nokia plant is expected to open soon). the production of components and the production by subcontractors has already been relocated to non-european countries. the transfer of production abroad also includes design and product development. nokia is currently losing its position in its key markets of china and india, where several low-cost phone manufacturers are increasing their market share. the market share of 'nokia' in the mainstream mobile phone models decreased from 33% in 2010 to 24% in 2011 and continued to decrease in 2012. the smartphones of apple and samsung have pushed nokia out of most markets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at mobilising the egf for german needs in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at first solar manufacturing gmbh as a result of the major structural changes in the world trade system brought about by globalisation. first solar produced solar modules in frankfurt near oder, but the change in the market situation (decreasing prices and falling demand worldwide) led to the decision to close both plants. the redundancies at 'first solar' will immediately lead to an increase of 4 percentage points in the unemployment rate. the unemployment rate in this region is already above average (11.3% compared to the national average of 7.4%). the package of services will include upskilling-oriented training, practical workshops, support services and international job search, in-depth advice for entrepreneurs, etc. i support the allocation of eur 2 305 357 from the egf to germany's needs to speed up the reintegration into the labour market of 959 redundant workers.
in writing. − i supported the mobilisation of the egf for germany to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant at first solar manufacturing gmbh as a result of the major structural changes in the world trade system brought about by globalisation. the financial support relates to the redundancies of 959 employees at first solar manufacturing gmbh. first solar produced solar modules in frankfurt near oder, but the change in the market situation (decreasing prices and falling demand worldwide) led to the decision to close both plants. the redundancies at 'first solar' will immediately increase the unemployment rate by 4 percentage points unless new jobs are created immediately. the unemployment rate in this region is already above average (11,3% compared to the national average of 7,4% in february 2013). the unemployment rate in frankfurt am main is even higher, at 14,1% (december 2012). the package of services includes measures to reintegrate 987 dismissed workers into the labour market, training aimed at upskilling, practical workshops, support services and international job search, in-depth advice for people setting up businesses, etc.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to mobilise the egf for the needs of denmark in order to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the vestas group as a result of the major structural changes in the world trade system brought about by globalisation. the eu wind power industry has been severely affected by the changes in the world trade system, which have significantly reduced its market share in the eu. the package of services will include consultancy, advice, language courses, entrepreneurship training, standardised courses and training programmes), entrepreneurship grants, etc. i approve the mobilisation of eur 6 364 643 to support the reintegration into the labour market of 611 redundant workers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the egf for the needs of denmark to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant by the 'vestas group' as a result of the major structural changes in the world trade system brought about by globalisation. mobilisation of eur 6 364 643 for the reintegration into the labour market of 611 redundant workers. the eu wind power industry has been severely affected by the changes in the world trade system, which have significantly reduced its market share in the eu. the package of services includes measures to reintegrate 611 redundant workers into the labour market, such as counselling, advice, mentoring, tailor-made training packages (cultural, language, entrepreneurship, standardised courses and training programmes), entrepreneurship grants, etc.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the european union and canada have a long-standing broad political and economic cooperation, which aims to strengthen not only political relations but also political association and further bilateral cooperation. i believe that the eu-canada strategic partnership agreement, applied in conjunction with the comprehensive economic and trade agreement, will not only improve the institutional framework of the relationship, but will also bring tangible benefits and opportunities to the citizens of europe and canada, if all stakeholders are involved in this process. market opening and regulatory cooperation will not only bring economic benefits, but will also have a positive impact on solving employment problems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to conclude a strategic partnership agreement with canada. on 18 october 2013, the president of the commission and the prime minister of canada reached a political agreement on the main elements of the comprehensive economic and trade agreement and negotiations on a strategic partnership agreement are continuing. these agreements would open up markets and regulatory cooperation, which would bring significant economic benefits and have a positive impact on employment in both the eu and canada. the eu and canada are also negotiating a passenger name record agreement, which should ensure a closer relationship in the fight against terrorism. i support the proposals set out to ensure that civil society representatives and key stakeholders are actively involved and consulted during the negotiation process. it is important to pursue interparliamentary cooperation and to report regularly to the european parliament on the implementation of the agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a strategic partnership agreement with canada. on 18 october 2013, the president of the commission and the prime minister of canada reached a political agreement on the main elements of the comprehensive economic and trade agreement and negotiations on a strategic partnership agreement are continuing. these agreements would open up markets, which would bring significant economic benefits and have a positive impact on solving employment problems in canada and the eu. the eu and canada are also negotiating a passenger name record (pnr) agreement, which should ensure closer relations also in the fight against terrorism. the visa waiver issue should be resolved urgently, ensuring that individuals and businesses from all eu member states are given equal opportunities to cooperate with canadian entities.
in writing. − the eu-canada strategic partnership agreement, together with the comprehensive economic and trade agreement, will be mutually beneficial, reinforcing and further developing an established partnership based on shared values and interests. the strengthening of the strategic relationship with canada also strengthens the transatlantic partnership.
in writing. − i supported the pursuit of effective recovery plans and resolution measures to improve the stability of the non-bank financial sector worldwide. the financial crisis has shown the interconnectedness of the global financial system: inadequate risk management processes by a single large market player can be contagious and spread. as the financial system around the world is becoming more resilient, all market participants need to have a better understanding of how their businesses will perform under adverse conditions or be orderly liquidated.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at an ambitious european space policy. the space industry employs 35 000 highly qualified workers and has a consolidated annual turnover of more than eur 6,5 billion. however, the us remains the leading space country, and the share of the budget invested in civilian and military space activities is significant. china and india are also making progress in space. in its communication of 28 february 2013, the commission proposes a wide range of measures aimed at 'exploiting the potential for economic growth in the space sector'. i support the proposals for better coordination of eu, eea and member states activities in the space sector, in order to avoid duplication of structures and to concentrate efforts. i believe that the european economic sector should focus on those areas which already have a high potential for growth and innovation. these include the european satellite navigation system galileo, the european earth observation programme copernicus (gmes) and satellite communications in general.
in writing. − the us remains the leading space country, with a significant share of the budget invested in civilian and military space activities. china and india are also making progress in space. in its communication of 28 february 2013, the commission proposes a wide range of measures aimed at 'exploiting the potential for economic growth in the space sector'. i agree that the european economic sector should focus on those areas which already have a high potential for growth and innovation. these include the european satellite navigation system galileo, the european earth observation programme copernicus (gmes) and satellite communications in general.
in writing. - i voted for the cloud computing resolution. the economic and commercial prospects of cloud computing based on an internet connection, which allows the user to access all digital information, documents and software from any computer with an internet connection, are growing. companies are increasingly realising that by using the best-performing business tools and/or by significantly increasing infrastructure resources at affordable prices, they can significantly improve operational efficiency. i agree with the rapporteur that europe must promote research and technological development in the field of cloud computing. however, the development of a strategic action plan for cloud computing requires emphasising aspects such as: the integrity of cloud standards (customer switching, high interoperability and open specifications), secure and fair contract terms (enterprise-user contracts are fundamentally different from business-to-business contracts), public sector initiative (citizens could benefit from more efficient and innovative public services) and others. i believe that the full deployment of cloud computing is strategically important for the creation of a digital single market. the development of the european cloud therefore has a unique potential to become a powerful tool to accelerate the creation of the digital single market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at a european union-wide strategy for cloud computing. i welcome the commission's communication on the use of cloud computing in europe and the intention to develop a coherent approach to cloud computing services in the eu. cloud computing is the storage, processing and use of data on remote computers accessible via the internet. users have access to unlimited computing capacity, do not need to invest a lot of capital to meet their needs, and can access their data wherever they are with an internet connection. cloud computing has the potential to significantly reduce users' it costs and to create a wide range of new services. using remote computing, even the smallest businesses can reach ever-larger markets, and governments can make their services more attractive and efficient by reducing costs. in 2014, cloud revenues could reach eur 148,8 billion and 60% of server workloads will be virtual. i agree that the future strategy must address a variety of issues: technological issues related to the development, management and scalability of cloud systems, and non-technical issues such as legal aspects related to data privacy and security, which are major barriers to widespread use of cloud infrastructures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document. cloud computing can be thought of as the storage, processing and use of data on remote computers accessible via the internet. users have access to unlimited computing capacity, do not need to invest a lot of capital to meet their needs, and can access their data wherever they are with an internet connection. this has resulted in a significant reduction in users' it costs and the creation of a wide range of new services. using remote computing, even the smallest businesses can reach ever-larger markets, and governments can make their services more attractive and efficient by reducing costs. the future strategy will have to address a variety of issues: technological issues related to the development, management and scalability of cloud systems; non-technical issues, such as legal aspects related to data privacy and security, which are major barriers to the widespread use of cloud infrastructures.
in writing. - i agree with this document and the ideas it contains. indeed, innovative solutions such as cloud computing open up new avenues and new opportunities for businesses, especially small ones, to manage information and its flows efficiently. on the other hand, i also fully agree with the report's views on the risks associated with this type of activity. i would highlight as one of the main threats the potential data security problems, especially in cases where cloud computing is provided by companies established in other jurisdictions. i therefore join the calls for the commission to take further action to address these problems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to outline the rapporteur's opinion on the eerri assessment, with a view to stimulating debate on this subject in order to produce a harmonised report. the eerri was established to replace the european regulators group, through which national regulators share experience and opinions on the functioning of the eu telecoms market, and to help the ec and national regulators implement eu rules on electronic communications. tasks of the eerri office: to provide professional and administrative support to eerri, to collect and share information from national regulatory authorities and to disseminate best regulatory practices to national regulatory authorities (methodology, guidelines for the implementation of eu rules, etc.). i support the proposals set out to assess the proper functioning of the eric, to improve aspects of the eric such as its independence and potential conflict of national and eu interests and accountability.
in writing. - i voted yes. the purpose of this document is to provide an overview of the initial opinion of the rapporteur on the evaluation of eerri and the eerri office (swd(2013) 152) with a view to stimulating reflection and discussion on this issue with a view to producing a harmonised report. the notifier considers that erri is performing its activities properly. it appears that eerri (and the predecessors) have gradually built up the trust between national regulatory authorities, helping to achieve eerri's objectives effectively. however, this should not prevent discussion of the possibility of developing a set of broader ambitions and internal market-oriented objectives for eric and its structure. on the other hand, there appear to be some problems with the erri office itself and with the relationship between the erri office and the office. on the one hand, the evaluation report certifies and recognises the value of eerri and the eerri office since their establishment in 2009, as well as in the areas of network neutrality and international roaming. on the other hand, the evaluation notes that there is still room for improvement in erri's activities. this proposal may be made in view of the short time since the establishment of the erc (it was established following the most recent review of the regulatory framework for electronic communications), but it seems that a number of other structural aspects can still be considered, in particular in view of the fact that another comprehensive review of the electronic communications system will be carried out.
in writing. − i voted in favour of reforming the european union's common fisheries policy (cfp) to limit overfishing and to prohibit fishermen from discarding unwanted catches. the eu council will have to take sustainability into account when negotiating fishing quotas. i am in favour of fishermen following the principle of maximum sustainable yield, i.e. catching only as much of a given species as can be replaced in a year. it is important to apply this principle to eu vessels fishing in third country waters. a quarter of the eu's catches are discarded because of its unsuitability. i agree that from 2015 onwards, 95% of catches will be required to be landed in ports. catches of an inappropriate size or species shall not be authorised for food use but only for other uses. i agree that if it turns out that the fleet of one or another member state is too large, the nca concerned should submit a plan to reduce overcapacity and that if it does not comply with these provisions, the commission should impose financial penalties. it is important to change the rules on the labelling of fishery products from 2014 in order to better inform consumers about where and how the fish was caught.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because a successful fisheries policy can only be achieved if the rules are respected. the new framework regulation thus provides for a decision in principle that eu funds for fisheries can only be disbursed if the rules of the common fisheries policy are respected. this applies both to member states and to individual fisheries undertakings. those detailed rules will be laid down in the regulation on the european maritime and fisheries fund. a major achievement of the negotiating group is the establishment of the so-called fishing opportunities criteria, i.e. member states will in future be able to allocate fishing opportunities (quotas) to their fishermen on the basis of objective and transparent criteria. these criteria must include ecological, social and economic criteria. this could be beneficial for those fleet segments that can demonstrate that they create more than average jobs and have a lower than average environmental impact. the european parliament has ensured greater transparency beyond the allocation of quotas. scientific data on the situation of fish stocks collected by the member states should also be made available to all interested parties, subject to data protection rules.
in writing. − i am pleased that today we have finally adopted the document setting out the principles of the new fisheries policy. importantly, the negotiations between the eu institutions have succeeded in preserving provisions on the use of fishing quotas, which are based on scientific data and ensure adequate recovery of fish stocks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products. the european parliament and the council request the european commission to submit a proposal to them which takes into account the need to regulate the provision of information on the type of fishing gear for products obtained from wild fisheries. i support this joint statement by the ep and the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document because, in the light of the continuing work on the reform of the regulation on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products, the european parliament and the council are asking the european commission to submit to them a proposal to amend the control regulation (regulation (ec) no 1224/2009). such amendment should take into account the need to regulate the provision of information on the type of fishing gear for products obtained from wild fisheries. the european parliament and the council also request the commission to adopt in a timely manner the necessary amendments to commission implementing regulation (eu) no 404/2011 concerning the provision of mandatory information to consumers in order to take into account the provisions of that regulation, the revised control regulation and regulation (ec) no 1169/2011 of the european parliament and of the council on the provision of food information to consumers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal on the special conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and the fishing regime for international waters in the north-east atlantic, which aims to strengthen deep-sea fisheries and protect seabed ecosystems. deep-sea fish are caught up to 4,000 metres in the atlantic, and their habitats include coral reefs dating back as much as 8,500 years and ancient species that have so far been little studied. it's a fragile environment and it won't give up if it's damaged. i agree that the licensing system should be improved and that the fishing gear used for deep-sea fishing should be phased out, as is the case with bottom trawls and bottom trawls. i also support the proposal to review the rules after four years to assess the consequences of bottom trawling and the need to ban it altogether. it is also important to provide fishing vessels whose crews use bottom trawls with access to the european maritime and fisheries fund to replace fishing gear, to carry out related ship improvements and to provide the necessary training.
in writing. - i supported the need to seek new regulatory measures for deep-sea fisheries in the north-east atlantic. the regulation aims to ensure sustainable deep-sea fisheries, reduce unwanted catches, limit the impact on vulnerable deep-sea habitats and collect more data on the biology of these species. it is proposed to improve the licensing system and to phase out the less sustainable deep-sea fishing gear, namely bottom trawls and bottom set gillnets.
in writing. - i approve this document. the protection of deep-sea fish stocks is an important element of eu fisheries policy. although we are committed to strengthening the protection of these resources, detailed technical measures to implement these commitments have not yet been established. i am referring to the regulation of the duties and responsibilities of the masters and owners of vessels flying the flags of the eu countries, both in terms of the fishing gear used and the fishing process. i therefore regard this legislation as a major step forward in the conservation and restoration of deep-sea fish stocks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to review the civil protection system in the european union and to establish a civil protection mechanism. civil protection in the eu is currently governed by two legal instruments: the instrument on the community civil protection mechanism and the instrument on the related financial instrument for the period 2013-2020. in recent years, natural and man-made disasters have become more frequent and more dangerous. climate change may lead to more disasters in the future. the proposal does not seek to further harmonise the civil protection actions of the member states, as civil protection remains a competence of the member states. the aim of european legislation is to support and complement the action of the member states and to promote cooperation and consistency. i support the proposals to ensure compliance with the established guidelines and to strengthen cooperation between the ngos. i believe that further regional cooperation should be encouraged through the sharing of knowledge and best practice and through training programmes. it is also important to ensure a better and more robust european system of disaster response capabilities by mobilising financial and human resources.
in writing. − i supported the need to review the eu's civil protection system and to establish a civil protection mechanism. civil protection in the union is currently governed by two legal instruments: the instrument on the community civil protection mechanism and the instrument on the related financial instrument for the period 2013-2020. the reality demands not only changes in the institutional and budgetary framework but also a review of the existing system. in recent years, natural and man-made disasters have increased dramatically and become more dangerous, and climate change is expected to lead to more disasters in the future.
in writing. − natural disasters are increasingly common. over the past 10 years, heat, fires, floods, winter storms and summer storms have killed more than 100 000 citizens in the european union (eu). the eu economies were also affected by the disaster. the damage is in the hundreds of billions of euros a year. germany has been particularly affected by natural disasters in recent times. we have seen most of the eu aid so far outside the eu. while the eu's current financial resources for natural disasters are modest at €368 million, eu aid to the philippines after the typhoon is a good example of how the eu can achieve maximum results with minimal resources. i voted in favour of this report because it proposes effective means of better coordinating the response of eu countries to natural disasters through a new eu civil protection mechanism. i support the important preventive measures provided for in the document which reduce losses in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this document on credit agreements for residential property, which aims at harmonising the rules on housing loans and the supervisory measures for their implementation, which will ensure that home buyers planning to take out a loan in this respect are better informed about the costs and risks of a loan. they will apply to loans related to residential property and to the land on which the property is located or is only planned to be built. i am in favour of the adoption of new rules to ensure a stable, integrated and sustainable housing loan market, the highest level of consumer protection, adequate information and a balanced relationship between lenders and borrowers. i support the proposals set out below to have the european banking authority investigate breaches of the rules and their incorrect implementation, either at the request of the european union states, the eu institutions, the banking stakeholder group or on its own initiative.
in writing. − i supported the introduction of the housing loan rules already agreed with eu countries, which require lending institutions to provide better information on loan costs and risks. an appropriately harmonised union legal framework is established, taking into account differences in credit agreements arising in particular from differences in national and regional property markets. ensure a high and equivalent level of consumer protection: this directive should create a more transparent, efficient and competitive internal market in the use of consistent, flexible and fair credit agreements for real estate, while promoting sustainable lending and borrowing and financial inclusion. in cases where there is an outstanding debt following the procedure for the withdrawal of rights to use assets, member states should ensure the protection of minimum living conditions and put in place measures to facilitate the repayment of the debt and at the same time avoid excessive indebtedness in the long term. the total cost of the credit to the consumer should not include the costs related to the purchase of the immovable property or land which are to be borne by the consumer, such as the associated fees and costs to the notary or the costs of registering the land plot.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a preferential import regime and reduce the import duty for a limited quantity of husked rice from bangladesh. the preferential import arrangements for products from least developed countries (ldcs), including the preferential import arrangements for rice, are provided for in the uruguay round of the general agreement on tariffs and trade. a special council regulation concerning imports of rice originating in bangladesh was adopted in 1990. the purpose of this proposal is to align the council regulation of 26 november 1990 on imports of rice originating in bangladesh with the arrangements for delegated and implementing acts which have been in force since the treaty of lisbon. i'm in favor of this proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of introducing a preferential import regime and a reduced import duty for a limited quantity of husked rice from bangladesh. preferential import arrangements for products from least developed countries, including preferential import arrangements for rice, provided for by the uruguay round of the gatt (general agreement on tariffs and trade). a special council regulation concerning the import of rice originating in bangladesh was adopted in november 1990. the commission proposes to align the 1990 council regulation with the system of delegated and implementing acts which has been in force since the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. the eu emissions trading system is the most important tool to reduce industrial pollution in the eu in a cost-effective and efficient way. in 2008, emissions fell by 10% after the start of the second trading period. the initial objective was to create a market-based measure to stimulate the price of carbon dioxide, thereby encouraging investment in low-carbon technology and renewable energy. however, the decrease in emissions in the second trading period could be strongly influenced by the economic downturn, which reduced economic activity and production. by the end of 2011, there was a surplus of 955 million allowances and this is expected to increase. as the surplus of allowances far exceeds demand, the price of carbon dioxide has fallen from eur 30 per tonne to eur 7 per tonne. this decline in the price of carbon is in contradiction with the increase in sustainable scientific and technological innovation and therefore reduces the incentive to invest in low-carbon technologies and increases the risk of the european union becoming dependent on carbon-intensive infrastructure. i agree that in order to strengthen and make the emissions trading system more efficient in stage 3, the commission needs to take concrete action by ensuring legal clarity and adapting the auction timetable accordingly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it aims to clarify the provisions on legal time limits for the auctioning of allowances laid down in directive 87/2003/ec. the european union emissions trading system is the key instrument to reduce pollution from eu industry in a cost-effective and efficient way. the current economic crisis, combined with the large volume of external carbon credits linked to the clean development mechanism and the many regulatory provisions related to the transition to the third trading period (2013-2020), has resulted in a clear surplus of allowances. by the end of 2011, there was a surplus of 955 million allowances and this is expected to increase. the european parliament therefore proposes to adopt short-term and long-term measures to address the inconsistency in the current eu emissions trading system. in addition, the rapporteur of this ep report proposes that the decision to adapt the auction timetables during the third trading period of the eu ets be made only once, in order to ensure that the stability and predictability of the eu ets is not undermined. therefore, this proposed short-term measure should not be seen as a solution to the current imbalances but as a possibility to ensure the stability of the eu emissions trading system pending the adoption of the necessary long-term structural measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because the eu emissions trading system is the most important tool to reduce industrial pollution in the eu in a cost-effective and efficient way. the original policy idea was to create a market-based measure to stimulate the price of carbon dioxide, thereby positively influencing investments in low-carbon technology and renewable energy, which would reduce emissions. the current economic crisis, combined with the large volume of external carbon credits linked to the clean development mechanism and the many regulatory provisions related to the transition to the third trading period (2013-2020), has resulted in a clear surplus of allowances. by the end of 2011, there was a surplus of 955 million allowances and this is expected to increase. as the surplus of allowances far exceeds demand, the price of carbon dioxide has fallen from eur 30 per tonne to eur 7 per tonne. this decline in the price of carbon is in contrast to the significant increase in sustainable scientific and technological innovation and is therefore a disincentive to invest in low-carbon technology and a growing threat to the dependency of the european union on carbon-intensive infrastructure. this proposed short-term measure should not be considered as a solution to the current non-compliance but as a possibility pending the adoption of the necessary long-term structural measures to ensure the stability of the eu emissions trading system.
in writing. − today we adopted a resolution of particular importance for the eu's policy on climate change. the emissions allowance system was designed with the expectation that it would be an effective economic tool to encourage industry to reduce its pollution. unfortunately, the experience shows that the legacy of the system has not been self-correcting. the commission's intervention in the emissions trading system must be exceptional and unique, and in the future the commission must develop new rules that provide economic incentives for companies to reduce their emissions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to assess the situation of roma inclusion in the eu member states and to integrate this issue into national strategies. the 2010-2015 strategy for equality between women and men requires the commission to support gender equality in all aspects of the europe 2020 strategy. roma women face a high level of exclusion in employment and discrimination in the workplace, when seeking employment or when working. roma women are significantly behind roma men and non-roma women in literacy and academic achievement. i support the proposals set out to call on the commission to present a 'step-by-step' roadmap for the roma inclusion process in the eu, covering the results achieved, the objectives set and the specific means of implementing them. it is also important that the un and the commission integrate the goal of reducing child poverty into the eu roma inclusion process, to integrate children's rights into social inclusion measures, and to monitor progress in reducing child poverty.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because all eu institutions and member states must put an end to violence against women and girls, and end impunity and bring to justice those responsible for hate crimes, incitement to hatred, discrimination and violence against roma women and girls. the european parliament therefore calls on the member states that have received additional country-specific recommendations on roma issues during the european semester to implement them urgently and to combat discrimination, including in the workplace, to involve civil society, including roma organisations, in the decision-making process and to allocate not only eu but also national and other resources to fulfil the commitments made under the national roma integration strategies. it is also essential that the commission and the member states ensure that the fundamental rights of roma women and children are respected and that roma women and girls are informed of their rights under existing national legislation on gender equality and discrimination, including through awareness-raising campaigns, and that the fight against patriarchal and discriminatory traditions against women continues. in the context of this report, we also call on the council to reach agreement on an anti-discrimination directive to ensure that all grounds of discrimination are considered illegal in all areas of life.
in writing. − there are currently 10 million roma men, women, and children residing in the eu. they are sinking deeper into poverty and are being stripped of human rights. the roma are victims of hate speech, hate crime, and unlawful deportation. gender issues among the roma are a pressing issue that must be addressed. the literacy rate of roma women averages 68 % compared to a literacy rate of 81 % for roma men. the erasmus plus programme should put more focus on the roma population, and the commission should set up a roma trainee programme. cross-border solutions are crucial due to the mobility of this ethnic group. roma women are used to a patriarchal society, making their integration into the eu more difficult. their integration should be focused on separately from that of roma men. roma women are often victims of domestic violence and marry early, limiting their education. i welcome the councilʼs report and think that even more efforts concerning women can be made at a national level to support the roma population. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion, which aims to discuss the situation in south sudan and the difficulties it is facing. the naivasha peace agreement, which ended 22 years of civil war in sudan in 2005, provided for general elections in 2009 and a referendum in southern sudan on the territory's independence (which took place in 2011). but the universal peace agreement has not yet been implemented. the aim of this document is to discuss the current situation and difficulties faced by the country and the eu's support to it. the council adopted a comprehensive response strategy for this country in 2011-13. in total, the eu has committed eur 830 million. this contributes to the food security, health protection, education system, rule of law, water supply and hygiene of the population. i regret that this report indicates that the response strategy has received very little consideration in the ep and that the criteria for applying the strategy and the priorities it sets are not transparent. i agree that the eu should answer many questions, such as: what diplomatic measures has the eu taken to maintain relations between south sudan and sudan? has the eu done enough? is its activity sufficiently visible? did she make the right choices?
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at a cars 2020 action plan to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the industry by 2020. the automotive industry employs 12 million people in the eu, generates 4% of gdp and a trade surplus of eur 90 billion (2011). this industry is the largest private investor in research and innovation with an annual investment of around eur 30 billion. in 2007, just before the crisis, the eu registered 17 million cars sold, compared with just 12 million in 2012, the lowest figure since 1995. the action plan provides the first concrete results of the new policy priorities proposed in the industrial policy communication. the european green vehicles initiative will encourage a high level of investment in research and innovation. the european investment bank will be more closely involved in financing innovation and in improving access to credit for smes. it will also aim to encourage investment in advanced technologies for clean vehicles, etc. i agree with the proposals to stress the importance of technological development and the search for alternative energy sources, to align legislation with the objectives set, to improve the links between the actors in the production chain in order to improve competition and to protect the most vulnerable companies. it is also important to improve existing financial instruments and, if necessary, to create new ones. the eu needs to develop an urgent agenda of reforms and policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the automotive industry is undergoing a revolution in the world: demand is declining or stagnating in europe, and production has moved to emerging market economies. in addition, the energy resources used are gradually but clearly changing as the digitisation of parts and functions takes place and the resulting production volumes increase. in its report, the european parliament calls on the european commission to coordinate its responsibilities more effectively in implementing the recommendations of the cars 2020 action plan and to monitor them by a high-level working group in order to avoid a repeat of the failure of the first phase of the cars 21 process in december 2005, which concluded with no follow-up. the ep therefore asks the commission to draw up a clear agenda, including urgent action, and to use its powers of initiative, in particular to establish guidelines to coordinate and complement the actions of member states and businesses, in order to ensure a decent standard of living for eu citizens and to strengthen eu industry in order to achieve economic and employment growth and market recovery.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because the automotive industry is not only an important part of the industrial production chain but also an important factor for competitiveness, economic growth and employment in the eu. the action plan cars 2020 aims to strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of the industry by 2020. the action plan includes policy initiatives to: encourage investment in advanced technologies for clean vehicles; improve market conditions, for example by rationalising financial incentives for clean vehicles; increase industry's participation in the global market through balanced trade deals, enhanced international harmonisation of vehicle legislation and investment in new skills and training.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the alternative motion for a resolution proposed by our group, 'a free and democratic europe', which provides that the parental role, rather than that of the state and its institutions, is and must be the most important in the education of children in all matters. however, the majority of meps chose an intermediate option between the original draft and its alternatives, rejecting the controversial provisions but recognising the state, not the parents, as the main institution shaping the policy and implementation of children's sex education. however, the resolution adopted notes that the formulation and implementation of sexual and reproductive health and rights policies, as well as sexual education in schools, fall within the competence of the member states and that the eu can contribute by promoting good practice in the states. i am convinced that no authority can know better than parents when to speak to their children about the best time, the best way, and the best subject.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. parents have the primary role in the education of their children, and they should have it, not the state and its institutions. sex education cannot be forced. in accordance with the principle of public policy doctrine and internationally recognised standards, the parents or legal guardians of a child have the right to ensure that their children are brought up in accordance with their own beliefs. no authority can know better than parents when it comes to deciding when, how, and what is the best time to talk to their children. each child is very individual and official documents cannot regulate the requirements for what should be informed to children of one age group or another. the best interests of the child shall be the overriding principle. parents must be the main institution shaping the policy and implementation of children's sexuality education.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on volunteering and voluntary activity in europe. volunteering is an important pillar of our democratic and pluralistic society. it is important to emphasise that the impact of volunteering on society is direct, as it promotes solidarity between generations, contributes to the active participation of older people and citizens at all stages of life, and thus ensures genuine social integration. we, the members of the european parliament, call on the member states to continue to create conditions favourable to voluntary activity, in particular through the legal framework, as such a framework is lacking. we emphasise the need to promote voluntary activities among students. skills acquired by young people should be included in the european skills passport and in the europa, thus ensuring equal treatment between formal and non-formal education. despite the difficulties and the challenges of the current economic crisis for this activity, which by its nature does not bring direct economic benefits, the success of the activity has nevertheless proved that solidarity is more important than selfishness, even in difficult times. i agree with the rapporteur that a permanent service should be set up to be responsible for the policy on voluntary activity and for coordinating the activities of the various services and institutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen the european approach to voluntary activities. the european year of volunteering 2011 has four objectives: to create an enabling environment for volunteering; to empower volunteering organisers by providing them with better tools; to recognise volunteering and to raise awareness of the importance of volunteering. key achievement of the year of voluntary activity the creation of a european skills passport, which provides a detailed overview of the skills of volunteers that are important to be officially recognised for both professional and personal purposes. i support the proposals to establish a single point of contact a permanent service responsible for the policy on voluntary activity and for coordinating the activities of the various services and institutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because volunteering is an important aspect of active citizenship and democracy, as well as of personal development, which concretely expresses european values such as solidarity and non-discrimination, and also helps to develop participatory democracy and to promote human rights in the eu and beyond. volunteering can be important for acquiring skills needed for the labour market and can provide an opportunity to occupy an important social position in the community. volunteering also contributes to the europe 2020 growth strategy as an important factor in generating social capital, promoting development and economic and social cohesion. the european parliament therefore asks the commission to provide for and develop a policy on voluntary activity and to apply an open method of coordination in order to promote dialogue and cooperation between stakeholders from different member states. calls on the member states to take the necessary steps to enshrine voluntary activities in their national labour legislation and to set up national coordination websites and search systems that can be easily and clearly accessed by individuals looking for volunteering opportunities and by organisations looking for cooperation opportunities;
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because volunteering is an important pillar of our democratic and pluralistic society. it is an expression of commitment, support and active participation in social life. the impact of these activities on society is direct, as they promote solidarity between generations, contribute to the active participation of older people and citizens at all stages of life, and thus ensure genuine social integration. although the current economic crisis has presented difficulties and has been a test for activities that by their nature do not provide direct economic benefits, the success of these activities has demonstrated that even in difficult times solidarity is more important than selfishness. volunteering is increasingly becoming a school and an opportunity to gain qualifications and skills through a test in the labour market.
in writing. − volunteering is central to fostering lifelong civic participation. it is a beneficial way of taking an active role in society. volunteering not only benefits the community, but it is valuable to the volunteer as well. it is an opportunity to learn and acquire skills that may be put to use in society’s workforce down the road. the more sophisticated and efficient the volunteering process becomes in the eu, the more society and the individual will thrive. it is important to continue the progress that the 2011 european year of volunteering accomplished in order to compare data and outcomes in the future. i voted in favour of this report because volunteering can become a key asset to the eu’s social and cultural cohesion policy if work is continued along the same lines to improve the impact of voluntary work in member states.
i don't think the vilnius meeting was a failure. i think it was more a failure to realise too late that the european union had made a lot of mistakes. we didn't have a strategy. we simply confused geopolitics with values. we didn't defend the positions of principle. we have not been able to simply unify and integrate all of the foreign policy that accompanies a vision of the world of the future. what happened was simply a lapse of judgment, a bit too late, but there are some lessons the european union certainly has to learn, and i think what happened in lithuania was a great lesson. first, to realise that no free european nation should become hostage to the leadership of its political class or to the practices and skills of its less than democratic leaders. the second thing is to listen very clearly to the will of the peoples and see how much they can help us, our european solidarity and sense of europe.
i, like a number of people in the room today, am very positive about the eastern partnership summit in lithuania, because we have signed certain agreements with moldova and georgia. this is very important because we know how much these countries have experienced some political pressure in the past. we must also acknowledge today that we may have faced and evaluated certain of our actions, and that we, and the european union, have failed to avoid certain mistakes. we really have to understand that this signing of the association agreement was a geopolitical act and naturally we could not expect a very easy solution. i agree with those who propose to assess certain financial commitments that would be borne by the european union itself, but it is clear that the ukrainian people themselves are deciding their own future prospects today, which is inevitable and necessary if ukraine is to understand its integration into the european union correctly and in an orderly way in the future. however, i would also like to ask, mr president, that we also hear the representatives of the presidency of lithuania on this matter.
the vilnius summit is history. it was certainly a step forward, especially compared to previous eastern partnership summits, but today we must look to the future and seek a political solution in the present situation. hundreds of thousands of ukrainians are demanding that ukraine not give up its strategic goals, its path to european integration. instead, president yanukovych is offering them a strategic partnership with russia. these days, the future of the european union and the future of russia are being decided at euromaidan. ukraine to europe chanted the protesters. the ukrainian authorities are unfortunately not ready to listen to their citizens. instead, we have become witnesses to the use of force. furthermore, ukrainian leaders lack the political will to resist russian promises and proposals that are clearly aimed at keeping ukraine within their sphere of influence. ukraine is in a political, financial and economic crisis. in order to avoid a deeper crisis, the best political solution is early presidential and parliamentary elections. the authorities have lost the confidence of a large part of the ukrainian citizens and of their european partners.
i was at euromaidan on sunday. hundreds of thousands of people are there, and every single one of them has a voice. it's the same spirit as the singing revolutions in the baltics, over 20 years ago. what happens to these people at euromaidan is our responsibility too. they are only protected by our attention and our call for the authorities to engage in dialogue, to refrain from violence. we must be sober about the russian influence. the eastern partnership countries are geopolitically influenced and the european union's statements cannot be 'take it or leave it'. we have to take concrete measures, taking into account the sensitivities that each of these countries is experiencing, what they are dependent on and what the pressures are. and it is necessary to continue visa liberalisation because it is people-to-people contacts. the prime minister is saying that the european union wants to withdraw on the issue of visa liberalisation, and i think it is important to state our position on this. and in the end, "long live ukraine, and glory to ukraine".
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. − madam president, as regards the regulation establishing a partnership instrument: the strategic interest of the eu is to boost growth and jobs by promoting fair and open trade and investment at the multilateral and bilateral level and by supporting the negotiation and implementation of eu trade and investment agreements. in the spirit of the above, in the committee on internal trade we have endeavoured to include provisions in order to better target and coordinate the global union instrument to foster partnership and union visibility globally. the current regulation should contribute to creating a secure climate for the increase of trading and investment opportunities for europe’s goods and services worldwide, especially in areas where europe has a competitive advantage. special attention should be given to improving market access, eliminating trade and investment barriers and fighting against unjustified protectionist measures, and opening up new business opportunities for european companies worldwide, with special focus on smes. the compromise reached last month in the trialogues ensures that the objectives above are duly included in the regulation. therefore we support the adoption of the current partnership instrument.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for a comprehensive and detailed report which underlines the universality of human rights. promoting human rights around the world is rightly a cornerstone of the eu’s external relations. i am also grateful that mr kukan included my amendment on russia, and in particular my concern about mikhail khodorkovsky, a concern shared by so many of us in this house. this christmas will be his last behind bars after 10 years of injustice, political persecution and imprisonment. we eagerly await his release next august. russia badly needs a change of direction. it needs people of the character and calibre of mikhail khodorkovsky to take the country forward. finally, the report mentions another former yukos employee, vasily aleksanyan, who died after being tortured. his case is a stark reminder that some people in russia pay for their principles not only with their freedom but with their lives.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - i thank the rapporteurs for a job well done. it is very important that we can confirm the operation of the globalisation adjustment fund for the next seven years, because overall unemployment rates in europe are still quite high, youth unemployment is not declining, and job creation has not yet returned to pre-crisis levels, while competition in global markets is indeed very intense. so we either have to enable our companies to compete in global markets, or we have to have the tools to help the workers of those companies that have not withstood the pressures of globalization and have had massive layoffs. and it is for these reasons alone that the globalisation fund must survive and continue to operate. it will also continue to help workers who have been affected by the mass redundancies caused by the economic crisis, as well as young people who are neither in education nor in employment, to enter the labour market. i am very pleased that the fund will also be able to be used to help temporary workers, those working on fixed-term contracts - and these are often women - return to the labour market, so it is very important that the fund can be used for this purpose as well.
in writing. i would like to emphasise that in many other countries of the european union, domestic workers are often working with low guarantees, are employed without a contract, are paid late, are required to work overtime without being properly compensated, have their rights to rest and holiday pay ignored, and are not paid their social security contributions. this category of workers is predominantly female. according to eurostat, there are 2.6 million domestic workers in the european union, of whom 89% are women and half are migrants. this international labour organisation convention no 189 requires the protection of domestic workers, who are often in a highly vulnerable situation, mostly women and migrants, and who are victims of discrimination and of various abuses linked to violations of their human rights. it is therefore essential that member states ratify this convention and take measures to ensure decent working conditions and social rights and to prevent abuse, violence and child labour in the home.
it is not the first time that the council has put on the agenda key issues of economic growth and employment. economic and monetary union, job creation will be on the agenda again. the talk is as much as it is, but it does not produce the desired results. we must admit in all fairness that the community has failed to achieve a major breakthrough in the economic sphere this year. growth is too low and efforts to boost it have not been backed up by any tax reforms or concessions to small and medium-sized enterprises. the job creation programme in the member states only works to the extent that there were vacancies in the warm period of the year, but this problem - not even a programme, but a temporary solution to it, which was solved by life, but not by the government - is gaining new momentum in the cold period of the year. its negative impact will be felt in the summer of next year, when youth unemployment will jump by a few more percent. in the meantime, i'm going to suggest a few things that i think will work. first, the european union's financial support and substantial tax incentives for businesses in the european union to hire new people under the age of 30. secondly, member states support loans and grants for young people to buy their first home. third, the €6 billion in funding foreseen in the youth employment initiative programme must be made available immediately, rather than waiting until 2015. and the tax burden on labour needs to be reduced much faster, and the earnings of families with young children should be taxed at a minimum.
the european council of 19 and 20 december will decide on the future guidelines of the common security and defence policy, examine proposals for a more effective economic and monetary union and enhance economic policy coordination in order to ensure the long-term economic and financial stability of the european union. the european union leaders will also assess progress in implementing measures to boost growth and employment. these are clearly issues of importance to the well-being of the people of europe. it is clear that the heads of state of the european union will discuss the creation of a banking union. this is one of the most important tasks of lithuania's presidency of the council of the european union. as you know, the first pillar of the banking union - the single supervisory mechanism for banks, which will ensure the prevention of financial crises - has already been agreed, and i hope that the leaders will also agree on the general provisions for the second - the bank resolution mechanism, which will help to deal with the insolvency of banks. this means that if banks are in difficulty, they will bear the costs of their own resolution, thus protecting european taxpayers' money. the banking union thus created will help to avoid possible future financial crises, improve the quality of supervision and restore confidence in the european union in international financial markets. all of this will make it easier for businesses and individuals to borrow. mr president, the european council will also discuss progress in the field of energy. we know that the new eu budget, which we approved last session, includes a line for funding strategic energy interconnection projects, and the european commission has approved a list of energy projects of common interest. given the current high cost of energy for the people of europe, it is essential to pay close attention to the proper implementation of these projects in order to complete the internal energy market of the european union and to eliminate existing energy islands. this will increase the competitiveness of the european economy and lower prices for consumers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a multiannual action programme, pericles 2020, for the period from 1 january 2014 to 31 december 2020, to promote actions to protect the euro against counterfeiting and related fraud. in december 2011, the commission adopted two proposals for the programmes 'hercule iii' and 'pericles 2020'. the programmes, with a budget of eur 110 million and eur 7,7 million respectively, will be implemented over seven years. hercule iii is designed to combat fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities detrimental to the eu's financial interests. pericles 2020 is an exchange, assistance and training programme to ensure the safety of euro banknotes and coins in europe and worldwide. i agree that the proposed co-financing rates put a significant financial strain on the fund and should therefore be reduced accordingly. 70% is the more appropriate co-financing rate and 80% could be applied in exceptional circumstances. i agree that the monitoring, evaluation and management measures put in place should ensure that the funds are used in the most efficient way possible. the consultations organised by the commission during the various stages of the implementation of the programme should focus on the mutual exchange of ideas with a view to drawing on experience gained in the future implementation of the programme.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish a financial package for the four years 2013-2017 of the european statistical programme, financed by the 2014-2020 programming period (dfp). the implementation of eu policies in different areas requires comparable and reliable statistical information on the economic, social and environmental situation in the eu and its various national and regional components. statistics are essential for a better public understanding of europe, for citizens to participate in democratic processes and for debates on the present and future of the eu. on 15 january 2013, a regulation was adopted on the european statistical programme 2013-2017 establishing a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of european statistics for the period 2013-2017. the commission's proposal for this regulation provides for a financial envelope of eur 299,2 million for the five years of the programme.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ensure decent working conditions and social rights and to prevent abuse, violence and child labour in the household. there are 2.6 million domestic workers in the eu, of whom 89% are women and half are migrants. domestic work, given its isolated and individual nature, is one of the most unprotected and invisible forms of work. the international labour organisation convention on decent work for domestic workers was adopted in 2011. it requires ngos to ensure decent working conditions and social rights and to prevent abuse, violence and child labour in the household. in 2013, the commission submitted a proposal authorising the un to ratify the convention. i support calls for member states to provide domestic workers with the means to ensure that fundamental rights at work are respected (freedom of association; abolition of all forms of forced or compulsory labour; effective abolition of child labour and discrimination at work). it is necessary to ensure adequate living conditions, the right to be informed of working conditions by means of a written contract, uninterrupted weekly rest of at least 24 hours, protection of the minimum wage and the right of domestic workers to a safe and healthy working environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is very important to draw attention to the fact that domestic work, given its isolated and individual nature, is one of the most unprotected and invisible forms of work. for these reasons, it is very often difficult for domestic workers to obtain information about their rights and to join associations or unions that represent them, which can give them the opportunity to defend their labour and social rights more effectively. in addition, domestic workers are often working with low guarantees, are employed without a contract, are late in receiving wages, are required to work overtime without being properly compensated, have their rights to rest and holidays ignored, and their social security contributions are not paid. member states should therefore be encouraged to ratify this international labour organisation convention on decent work for domestic workers (convention no 189), as it is necessary for those member states that have ratified it to take measures to ensure decent working conditions and social rights and to prevent abuse, violence and child labour in the home.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal because of the need to ensure decent working conditions and social rights and to prevent abuse, violence and child labour in the household. the supplementary convention of the international labour organisation on decent work for domestic workers was adopted in 2011. it requires member states to ensure decent working conditions and social rights and to prevent abuse, violence and child labour in the home. in 2013, the commission submitted a proposal authorising member states to ratify the convention. there are 2.6 million domestic workers in the eu, of whom 89% are women and half are migrants. domestic work, given its isolated and individual nature, is one of the most unprotected and invisible forms of work. i believe that domestic workers should be given the means to ensure that fundamental rights at work are respected (freedom of association; abolition of all forms of forced or compulsory labour; effective abolition of child labour and discrimination at work). to set a minimum age for domestic workers which shall not be less than the age for workers in general laid down in national legislation; ensure: adequate living conditions; the right to be informed of working conditions by means of a written contract; at least 24 hours of uninterrupted weekly rest; protection of the minimum wage for domestic workers and the right of domestic workers to a safe and healthy working environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for accession to the international labour organisation's convention on decent work for domestic workers (convention no 189), which requires ratifying member states to take measures to ensure decent working conditions and social rights and to prevent abuse, violence and child labour in the home. i believe that improving working conditions for workers is inseparable from the freedoms granted by the eu in the field of mobility of persons and workers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to conclude a protocol to enable armenia to gradually accede to or increase its participation in certain union programmes. the partnership and cooperation agreement between the republic of armenia and the european communities entered into force in 1999. armenia has been actively participating in the european neighbourhood policy since 2004 and in the eastern partnership since its implementation in 2009. this proposal provides for a general agreement on the general principles for the participation of armenia in union programmes. this agreement will allow armenia to progressively join or enhance its participation in certain union programmes, as well as to further promote links in the cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific fields, to strengthen people-to-people and sectoral cooperation and to strengthen policies and relations through the eastern partnership.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to sign the eu-france agreement providing for the application of union legislation on taxation to the commune of saint-barthélemy. as from 1 january 2012, the territorial community of saint-barthélemy ceased to be an outermost region of the union having the status of an overseas country and territory. france has committed itself to concluding the agreements necessary to safeguard the union's interests in the event of such a change. to that end, the commission shall be empowered to negotiate the terms. an agreement between the french republic, acting on behalf of saint-barthélemy, and the european union providing for the application in that territory of union legislation relating to the taxation of savings income and to administrative cooperation in the financial field is hereby concluded.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to extend the right granted to spain to exempt or reduce taxes on certain products produced in the canary islands. council decision 2002/546/ec authorised spain to exempt or reduce the levies on certain products produced in the canary islands until 31 december 2011 in order to strengthen the local industry and make it more competitive. the 2009 global economic crisis, which affected travel, has caused a lot of damage to the canary islands' economy, with the unemployment rate reaching 26.2% in 2009 after hovering around 10.4% in 2001-2007. the spanish authorities have requested that the application of these special rules be renewed for the period 2014-2020. the extension of the period of application of the decision is requested for a further period of six months. as the measure aims to further stimulate economic activity and stabilise employment in this outermost region and as the extension of the application of the decision is proposed for a limited period, i support this proposal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as the coordination of european union donors should help to achieve the objective of ending all formal and informal geographically linked aid and changing the efficiency agenda for the delivery of aid. the development of efficiency in the agenda. such european union initiatives to improve donor coordination are voluntary and optional, but crucial for effective eu development policy. this requires better coordination with the international community and, more importantly, with local actors, in particular local authorities, national parliaments, civil society and non-governmental organisations. only by pooling the resources of donor countries can multilateral development organisations increase the effectiveness of aid and achieve maximum efficiency. it should also be noted that the resources provided by international organisations also help donors to exchange information on development activities, thereby increasing transparency and accountability. it is also important to support capacity building in these countries to enable them to develop skills, gain practical experience and establish the institutions needed to manage their development effectively.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen europe's position in the world and to set a budget for external measures to support the eu's commitments and promote common values for the period 2014-2020. the proposal will enable the union to fulfil its commitments on the global stage: to fight poverty and to promote democracy, peace and prosperity. the eu will support developing countries, the european neighbourhood and countries preparing for eu accession through a range of instruments. the eu budget will be able to support 0.7% of eu gdp by 2015 to meet eu commitments at a similar level as before. the new commission approach change agenda, which aims to focus eu assistance on fewer sectors that help to consolidate democracy, human rights, good governance and promote inclusive and sustainable growth, will be supported. under the new differentiation principle, the eu will allocate a higher share of funds where the impact of aid is likely to be greatest, i.e. to countries and regions most in need of aid, including fragile states. the proposal includes nine instruments: the instrument for pre-accession assistance, the european neighbourhood instrument, the development cooperation instrument, the partnership instrument, the stability instrument, the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), the instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety, the greenland instrument and the european development fund.
in writing. − the european union's external action is based on six instruments, the implementation of which is governed by common rules and procedures. the aim is to ensure that the eu uses the resources allocated to these measures in the most efficient way possible to achieve the objectives set, ensuring their consistency, their interaction and their proper complementarity. in summary, all measures shall contribute to the universality and indivisibility of democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principle of equality, solidarity and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law. at the same time, it is necessary to strengthen the monitoring and accountability of the implementation of these measures, involving the european parliament, and to further enhance their visibility.
in writing. − the european union is well known in the world's hotspots not for military interventions but for civil, humanitarian and development aid. the eu's external action will be worth €32 billion between 2013 and 2020. this will continue to support, for example, civil societies outside the eu in their fight for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, as well as the economies of countries, especially their 'small' and 'medium' enterprises. the eu should give more support to those countries that are ready to implement reforms without delay. i voted in favour of this report because it stresses the need for the european parliament to have a weighty voice in decisions on external action policy. the ep has the right to be able to check how the european commission implements this policy not only at the time of the report but at any time.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen europe's position in the world and to set a budget for external measures to support the eu's commitments and promote common values for the period 2014-2020. the proposal will enable the union to fulfil its commitments on the global stage: to fight poverty and to promote democracy, peace and prosperity. the eu will support developing countries, the european neighbourhood and countries preparing for eu accession through a range of instruments. the eu budget will be able to support 0.7% of eu gdp by 2015 to meet eu commitments at a similar level as before. the new commission approach change agenda, which aims to focus eu assistance on fewer sectors that help to consolidate democracy, human rights, good governance and promote inclusive and sustainable growth, will be supported. under the new differentiation principle, the eu will allocate a higher share of funds where the impact of aid is likely to be greatest, i.e. to countries and regions most in need of aid, including fragile states. the proposal includes nine instruments: the instrument for pre-accession assistance, the european neighbourhood instrument, the development cooperation instrument, the partnership instrument, the stability instrument, the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), the instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety, the greenland instrument and the european development fund.
in writing. − as stability per se is not always a good thing, for example in the context of the arab spring, it is decided to clarify the name of the measure by emphasising that it contributes not only to stability but also to peace. this revised regulation aims, on the basis of past experience, to increase the effectiveness of union action in the fields of conflict prevention, crisis response and peace-building. this shall be achieved through development cooperation, developing economic, financial and technical cooperation with third countries and international organisations, while addressing security threats and security concerns. the aim is to achieve synergies with the remaining external action instruments, to strengthen the role and participation of civil society and, as is becoming increasingly relevant, to include cybersecurity aspects.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen europe's position in the world and to set a budget for external measures to support the eu's commitments and promote common values for the period 2014-2020. the proposal will enable the union to fulfil its commitments on the global stage: to fight poverty and to promote democracy, peace and prosperity. the eu will support developing countries, the european neighbourhood and countries preparing for eu accession through a range of instruments. the eu budget will be able to support 0.7% of eu gdp by 2015 to meet eu commitments at a similar level as before. the new commission approach change agenda, which aims to focus eu assistance on fewer sectors that help to consolidate democracy, human rights, good governance and promote inclusive and sustainable growth, will be supported. under the new differentiation principle, the eu will allocate a higher share of funds where the impact of aid is likely to be greatest, i.e. to countries and regions most in need of aid, including fragile states. the proposal includes nine instruments: the instrument for pre-accession assistance, the european neighbourhood instrument, the development cooperation instrument, the partnership instrument, the stability instrument, the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), the instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety, the greenland instrument and the european development fund.
in writing. − the enp includes eu cooperation with 16 partners the eu supports reforms in the neighbourhood to strengthen democracy, human rights and freedoms, the rule of law, and closer links between societies. the development of the partner economies and the creation of jobs are also beneficial for the eu. it is important to cooperate not only economically and politically but also in the fields of environment, culture, tourism, education and promoting contacts between young people. the principle of more for more remains. however, i think we need to rethink how eu policy towards the eastern partners of the european union could be more operational, more responsive to the realities and specific vulnerabilities of each partner. we need to be vigilant about russia's actions as a geopolitical player in the region at a time when eu partners are faced with strategic decisions and how the eu could help them defend their sovereign right to self-determination.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen europe's position in the world and to set a budget for external measures to support the eu's commitments and promote common values for the period 2014-2020. the proposal will enable the union to fulfil its commitments on the global stage: to fight poverty and to promote democracy, peace and prosperity. the eu will support developing countries, the european neighbourhood and countries preparing for eu accession through a range of instruments. the eu budget will be able to support 0.7% of eu gdp by 2015 to meet eu commitments at a similar level as before. the new commission approach change agenda, which aims to focus eu assistance on fewer sectors that help to consolidate democracy, human rights, good governance and promote inclusive and sustainable growth, will be supported. under the new differentiation principle, the eu will allocate a higher share of funds where the impact of aid is likely to be greatest, i.e. to countries and regions most in need of aid, including fragile states. the proposal includes nine instruments: the instrument for pre-accession assistance, the european neighbourhood instrument, the development cooperation instrument, the partnership instrument, the stability instrument, the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), the instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety, the greenland instrument and the european development fund.
in writing. − the instrument for pre-accession assistance includes targeted support for countries which have been granted candidate status by a decision of the european council (iceland, montenegro, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, turkey and serbia) and potential candidate countries. the commission has already adopted a proposal for a regulation on the european union's financial contribution to the european agricultural guidance and guarantee fund (eaggf) for the period 2007-13. the renewed measure will be more flexible, more result-oriented and more progress-oriented in the countries concerned. the involvement of civil society, the visibility of the assistance provided and the evaluation of the results achieved shall also be strengthened.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the creation of a partnership instrument for cooperation with third countries. i agree with the rapporteur that the eu's bilateral, regional and interregional cooperation partnership strategies must be supported by promoting policy dialogues, formulating common approaches to global problems and addressing them together. i believe that european companies must be given better access to third country markets and increased opportunities for trade, investment and business, while removing barriers to market entry and investment, establishing economic partnerships, and cooperating in business and regulatory matters.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen europe's position in the world and to set a budget for external measures to support the eu's commitments and promote common values for the period 2014-2020. the proposal will enable the union to fulfil its commitments on the global stage: to fight poverty and to promote democracy, peace and prosperity. the eu will support developing countries, the european neighbourhood and countries preparing for eu accession through a range of instruments. the eu budget will be able to support 0.7% of eu gdp by 2015 to meet eu commitments at a similar level as before. the new commission approach change agenda, which aims to focus eu assistance on fewer sectors that help to consolidate democracy, human rights, good governance and promote inclusive and sustainable growth, will be supported. under the new differentiation principle, the eu will allocate a higher share of funds where the impact of aid is likely to be greatest, i.e. to countries and regions most in need of aid, including fragile states. the proposal includes nine instruments: the instrument for pre-accession assistance, the european neighbourhood instrument, the development cooperation instrument, the partnership instrument, the stability instrument, the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), the instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety, the greenland instrument and the european development fund.
in writing. − the eu is a global player, developing dialogues and partnerships of varying intensity and scope with third countries, regional, interregional and international organisations around the world. this regulation will enhance their and mutual interests in europe 2020. the strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the external dimension. in the face of the challenges of globalisation, in a multipolar world, the eu is seeking to develop a common approach to global issues such as climate change, energy security, the transition to a greener economy. the eu also seeks to promote freer international trade through mutual access to markets, the removal of barriers to investment and improved conditions for business. equally important is the emphasis on promoting interpersonal relationships between people of all backgrounds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen europe's position in the world and to set a budget for external measures to support the eu's commitments and promote common values for the period 2014-2020. the proposal will enable the union to fulfil its commitments on the global stage: to fight poverty and to promote democracy, peace and prosperity. the eu will support developing countries, the european neighbourhood and countries preparing for eu accession through a range of instruments. the eu budget will be able to support 0.7% of eu gdp by 2015 to meet eu commitments at a similar level as before. the new commission approach change agenda, which aims to focus eu assistance on fewer sectors that help to consolidate democracy, human rights, good governance and promote inclusive and sustainable growth, will be supported. under the new differentiation principle, the eu will allocate a higher share of funds where the impact of aid is likely to be greatest, i.e. to countries and regions most in need of aid, including fragile states. the proposal includes nine instruments: the instrument for pre-accession assistance, the european neighbourhood instrument, the development cooperation instrument, the partnership instrument, the stability instrument, the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), the instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety, the greenland instrument and the european development fund.
in writing. - human rights problems are on the rise worldwide. the eu's founding principles - freedom, democracy, human rights - are still relevant and important to people in many parts of the world, and the eu's authority in this area remains high. the eu is seeking support and assistance from ukrainians in euromaidan, tibetans in china, people persecuted for their political beliefs in russia, belarus and arab countries. this measure will reinforce the eu's human rights action over the next seven years.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to strengthen europe's position in the world and to set a budget for external measures to support the eu's commitments and promote common values for the period 2014-2020. the proposal will enable the union to fulfil its commitments on the global stage: to fight poverty and to promote democracy, peace and prosperity. the eu will support developing countries, the european neighbourhood and countries preparing for eu accession through a range of instruments. the eu budget will be able to support 0.7% of eu gdp by 2015 to meet eu commitments at a similar level as before. the new commission approach change agenda, which aims to focus eu assistance on fewer sectors that help to consolidate democracy, human rights, good governance and promote inclusive and sustainable growth, will be supported. under the new differentiation principle, the eu will allocate a higher share of funds where the impact of aid is likely to be greatest, i.e. to countries and regions most in need of aid, including fragile states. the proposal includes nine instruments: the instrument for pre-accession assistance, the european neighbourhood instrument, the development cooperation instrument, the partnership instrument, the stability instrument, the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr), the instrument for cooperation in the field of nuclear safety, the greenland instrument and the european development fund.
in writing. − one of the eu's objectives is to make an effective contribution to the reduction of poverty in the world, the elimination of the segregation of developing countries and their people, especially the most vulnerable groups such as women and girls, and the development of the most difficult economic sectors, such as agriculture, education and energy. the measure is intended to provide almost eur 20 million in development cooperation support over the next seven years.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the european globalisation adjustment fund (2014-2020). the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide an instrument of eu solidarity and support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and the direct effects of the global economic and financial crisis. the european commission data show that as many as 48% of those who benefited from egf support returned to the labour market. the fund will also provide temporary support for young people who are out of work and/or education in regions where the rate of unemployment is disproportionate. the egf will continue to provide eu support for the re-skilling, job search and recruitment of redundant workers. the egf will provide eur 1 billion over seven years.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to extend the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for the period 2014-2020. this would allow the eu to continue to provide support for the re-skilling, job search and recruitment of displaced workers. the egf shall support job search, retraining of workers, related specialist advice and entrepreneurship measures. i regret that the fund's funding for this period has been reduced from eur 3.5 billion to eur 1.05 billion. i think his funding should be increased. i agree that support should also be provided to workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the financial or economic crisis. it is also important that the egf should be able to provide temporary support to young people who are not in employment or education and who live in regions where disproportionate numbers of people have lost their jobs. it is important that temporary or self-employed workers also benefit from the egf from the following year.
in writing. − i voted on this report on the european globalisation adjustment fund, which provides support to more than 20 000 eu citizens every year. in lithuania, two large companies in alytuje - snaigė and tekstilė - and two sectors that were most affected at the beginning of the crisis - construction and furniture - have already benefited from egf support. the foundation's support for the people of lithuania is therefore important. unemployment in the european union remains high and competition in global markets is intensifying. we are not immune to economic crises. it is clear that it is necessary to continue to have a financial instrument to help employees of bankrupt companies. therefore, we have not only extended the egf but also improved it to make it easier, faster and simpler for member states to access it. support will also be available for young people who are not in employment or education and who live in regions with high unemployment. aid may be granted to undertakings which lay off at least 500 workers over a four-month period, including workers made redundant by suppliers or downstream companies. before the crisis, firms which had made at least 1000 redundancies could count on the fund's support. the egf will be able to finance up to 60% of the costs, i.e. more than the european commission proposed, which planned to finance only 50% of these costs. the budget of the egf was approved during the negotiations, amounting to eur 1 billion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal as it is necessary to continue to provide eu support for redundant workers as well as temporary or self-employed workers from 2014. the fund would support not only those who have lost their jobs as a result of globalisation, but also workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the economic crisis. the fund will be available if the company or its suppliers have had to lay off 500 workers for the reasons mentioned above. support will be provided for active labour market measures aimed at accelerating the reintegration of dismissed workers into the labour market (training, retraining, counselling, etc.). i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund should be made more attractive and easier for member states to use.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to replace the national notification and authorisation procedures for carriers of radioactive materials by a single registration system. the implementation of this regulation should allow simplification of procedures and reduction of administrative burden while maintaining a high level of radiation protection. the replacement of national notification and authorisation procedures with a single transport registration system will help to simplify procedures, reduce administrative burdens and remove barriers to market entry, while maintaining the high level of radiation safety achieved. i support the proposals set out below to ensure that the criteria for issuing a registration certificate and the data models are uniform and that the registration process is harmonised, to introduce an electronic signature and to establish a mechanism for the exchange of information between the national authorities of the member states and the registration system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which welcomes the adoption of the european union's annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2012. human rights are a key aspect of the eu's relations with all third countries, including its strategic partners. it should also be emphasised that eu human rights policy must consistently respect the obligations of the treaty, ensure coherence between internal and external policy instruments and avoid double standards in external policy. we should therefore call for the adoption of the eu foreign affairs council conclusions on human rights and strategic partners, which would set out common minimum standards for the human rights situation for member states and eu officials to be required to set at least for strategic partners at their level. in this report, the european parliament reiterates its condemnation of violence and all forms of violence against women, including domestic violence, and calls on all council of europe member states to sign and ratify the convention on preventing and combating violence against women, and on the eu to launch the accession process to the convention, in order to ensure coherence in the eu's internal and external action on violence against women.
in writing. − the world still faces many problems related to violations of human rights and the suppression of fundamental freedoms. human rights belong to everyone and everyone. recognition of this principle is an integral aspect of the eu's internal and external relations. the eu's internal and external policies differ from those of, unfortunately, many other countries. some important eu partners often express their discontent when the eu draws attention to problems or breaches. nevertheless, this should not diminish our resolve to speak out about wrongdoing. in today's world, it is important that the eu, together with like-minded people, makes even greater efforts and measures to improve the human rights situation in the world.
in writing. − the promotion of human rights and democracy is the backbone of the eu's foreign policy. the eu appointed its first high representative for human rights a few years ago. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for special attention to be paid to human rights in countries which have just been liberated from the yoke of authoritarianism and where democracy is still very fragile. i also agree with the rapporteur that special attention should be paid to countries which are still struggling to establish democracy and human rights. the eu must continue to promote and defend the universality of human rights directly and through other global organisations such as the united nations, the international criminal court. democracy and people's freedom must be created within countries, not imposed from outside. the eu can help, but only the states and their societies can do it. free elections are not enough, we need to build civil societies that guarantee human rights and freedoms step by step.
in writing. − twenty years after the creation of the single market, anti-competitive practices still have a significant impact on many consumers in different sectors of the economy. the public sector is often reluctant to open up important sectors of the economy to competition, such as railways, airports, electronic communications or electricity. furthermore, there are no fully independent regulatory authorities in the public sector to ensure that the market operates properly, fairly and without discrimination. another problem is the provision of state aid. state aid to banks is often viewed negatively, as at the same time social services are being restricted in many european countries in order to restore fiscal sustainability, and banks receive billions in public funds. i therefore support the proposals put forward to ensure that banks are fully accountable for the use of these public funds. it is also important to ensure that the burden on taxpayers is minimised.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as the annual competition policy report should be used not only as a description of the practical implementation of the commission's competition policy, but also as a tool to help increase the overall competitiveness of the union, develop competition and open up markets to new entrants, thus expanding and deepening the internal market. the european parliament welcomes the commission's report and its focus on the contribution of competition policy to merger control, the removal of barriers, the abuse of a dominant position, the fight against collusion and state aid measures that distort competition, in order to benefit the common market and to take account of the evolution of the world economy. however, it should be noted that product prices still vary between member states, for example, because of the different agreements between member states and the pharmaceutical industry. the european parliament therefore calls on the commission to examine the problem and to put forward proposals in the interests of consumers, to avoid unnecessary price differences and to make the internal market as transparent as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to ensure a fair standard of living for farmers in mountainous areas, less favoured areas and the outermost regions. i agree that it is important to focus on these most vulnerable areas in order to ensure a decent standard of living for farmers and a future for rural areas. the european milk sector is facing major changes as quotas expire in 2015. for the first time in 31 years, the sector will not be subject to milk quotas. this substantial change is liable to affect the functioning of the market in the milk sector, in particular in less favoured areas and the outermost regions. the so-called milk package aims to increase the bargaining power of producers and it is also important to further investigate the impact of the abolition of quotas, in particular in less favoured areas and the outermost regions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to reduce the risk of disasters in developing countries. between 1992 and 2012, 64% of the world's population was affected by natural disasters. 1.3 million people died (230,675 of them in haiti alone) and the damage was estimated at $2 trillion. since 2000, there have been 50 to 65 food crises per year, compared with about 25 to 45 in the 1990s. despite the increase in disaster losses, more than 95% of humanitarian aid funds are still allocated to disaster response and recovery measures and less than 5% to disaster risk reduction. a commission working document on a resilience action plan for countries with a high risk of crisis for the period 2013-2020 has recently been presented. risk reduction (rr) is an essential condition for ensuring resilience. nrm includes risk analysis and management aimed at reducing vulnerability to the threat and thus strengthening resilience. i support the suggestions made to include resilience measures in development and humanitarian aid programming. the eu institutions and the un should better coordinate their development and humanitarian activities. it is also important to increase efforts to address the inefficient use of funds for nrm and resilience actions and the duplication of activities and efforts in this area.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. various examples show that women with disabilities are often in a much worse position than healthy women. this disparity must be eliminated. women with disabilities should be guaranteed the right to live a life of personal choice and ideas, as should other women. to facilitate this, social barriers need to be reduced and a positive awareness of the needs of diversity needs to be created. we, the members of the european parliament, believe that special attention should be paid to the childhood and adolescence of women with disabilities, as these periods can provide the basis for many positive changes in adult life. blended learning clearly helps to reduce social barriers and build confidence. it is essential to start talking about the problem of violence and discrimination in the language and media, in schools to help children and young adults have fair and equitable speech. i think it is very important that all women with disabilities who are able to work have the opportunity to pursue a career and be independent.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to create an accessible physical, mental and social environment for the 80 million disabled people in the european union, free from prejudices and stereotypes and free from barriers and obstacles to their full enjoyment of fundamental human rights and european citizenship. 15% of the european population are disabled; one in four europeans has a disabled family member. of the 80 million disabled people in the eu, 46 million are women and girls with disabilities, representing 16% of the total female population in the eu. the participation of women with disabilities in the labour market is still lacking. i agree that the involvement of disabled people and ngos in the development of new norms should become the norm, as this is the only way to act with disabled people and not in relation to them. i agree with the suggestions that a clear and non-discriminatory definition of disability, possibly using the un convention definition, is needed, as is the urgent implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities to ensure that the rights of persons with disabilities become a reality. it is also important to highlight the work of ngos on women with disabilities and its importance for the state and society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because women with disabilities face a wide range of difficulties, including severe difficulties in obtaining adequate housing, access to health care, public transport, education and vocational training, employment, inequalities in access to credit and other production resources, and a low level of participation in decision-making processes. it is very important to note that as the number of disabled people increases, so will the burden on carers, especially those who care for close family members, and most carers of disabled people are women, who are forced to reduce their working hours and even leave the labour market to care for dependent family members. the european parliament therefore stresses the need to provide women and girls with disabilities with appropriate care in the medical sector, and to provide continuous and career-long specific training in the field of mental illness and/or disability in order to identify these illnesses as effectively as possible and to refer patients to specialist medical institutions. parliament also called on the eu and the member states to take all necessary legal, administrative, social and educational measures to protect women and girls with disabilities at home and abroad from all forms of exploitation, violence and abuse.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. there may be up to one billion people with disabilities worldwide, with up to 80% of them in developing countries. the situation of women in developing countries is often difficult, and even more attention needs to be paid to women and girls with disabilities. in order to implement the europe 2020 strategy, we must ensure the full participation of women with disabilities in social and economic life and in decision-making. at the same time, women with disabilities are more likely to be victims of physical violence and exploitation, and their integration requires support for a variety of educational and training programmes, increasing access to a range of public services and a balanced life. to reduce as far as possible the problems in the member states related to the lack of infrastructure or the negative attitude towards such women, even violence against them. i therefore fully support the call in the document for the immediate implementation of a comprehensive strategy to combat violence against women. cooperation between states and national governments is also essential, because we have 80 million of them in the european union, more than half of whom are women.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims at a european retail action plan. the retail and wholesale sector generates 11% of eu gdp, accounts for 29% of european smes and employs almost 33 million people. however, a number of barriers to cross-border supply of goods, access to cross-border retail services for consumers and market access for retailers remain. in 2013, the commission adopted the european retail action plan and is preparing to set up a permanent retail competitiveness group to help formulate further specific objectives of the action plan, monitor progress, make recommendations to ensure that the actions set out in the action plan are fully implemented, etc. i support the proposals to promote consumer awareness, to increase access to retail services, and to encourage the exchange of good practice in commercial spatial planning between ngos. it is necessary to create fairer trading relationships between the food and non-food supply chains and to create a better working environment.
for the efd group i also want to thank mrs meissner for this important document. the european union's maritime economy is crucial to achieving the europe 2020 objectives and has enormous potential to help ensure europe's competitiveness in a global world, and the european union should therefore take a leading position in strengthening marine and maritime research, innovation and growth in the maritime sectors. marine energy can also help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the european union's dependence on energy imports. the promotion and protection of marine aquaculture is also important. european ports, shipping lanes and the shipping industry play an important role in the supply chain and in connecting european companies and the european market to the rest of the world.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. in the context of the economic crisis, high unemployment in many member states and high energy prices, the creation of sustainable jobs and the promotion of economic growth are important steps towards social cohesion. innovation is one of the ways to achieve this and must be given a high level of eu attention. environmental innovation is essential to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to use resources more efficiently, to increase the use of recycled materials and to produce quality products with a lower environmental impact, and to develop greener production processes and services. green innovation can be very diverse: new water filters for wastewater treatment, thinner and stronger steel to reduce waste materials, or a business model that provides repair services instead of selling products. we, the members of the european parliament, call on all the main actors in each sector to work together for green growth, innovation and job creation and to use existing instruments (e.g. technology platforms, joint working groups, etc.) and call on the commission and the member states to develop new legislation in the areas of the development and use of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency and to strengthen existing legislation in these areas, ensuring legal certainty and a level playing field and encouraging public and private sector investment.
in writing. - i approve this document. i am convinced that we will achieve better results in implementing environmental policy not by banning but by encouraging businesses to engage in this type of activity. this is particularly relevant now that the need for economic stimulus is still present. i therefore join the calls on the commission to come forward with a more detailed proposal on the integration of the concept of eco-innovation into eu policy and the means to finance and accelerate its implementation.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the payment accounts. modern payment services are an integral part of physical and legal activities. i believe that all persons legally resident in the european union should be able to open a basic bank account, compare fees and transfer their account to another bank if necessary. in other words, core accounts should allow consumers to deposit or withdraw money and make transfers within the european union within the limits of the amount of money in the account. the information on invoice charges should be clear and consistent so that the consumer can understand and compare it, and the process of switching the invoice should be as simple as possible for the consumer. i do not think that nationality or residence should be a reason to prevent a person from opening a basic bank account. there should also be at least one independent website in each eu country that allows banks to compare their fees and interest rates.
in writing. − i supported the proposal because of the importance of the eu's marine and coastal areas and the marine economy. the eu's maritime economy is crucial to achieving the europe 2020 goals and has huge potential to help ensure europe's competitiveness in a global world. the eu should therefore take a leading role in strengthening marine and maritime research and innovation and in fostering growth in the maritime sectors. marine energy can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the eu's dependence on energy imports. the promotion and protection of marine aquaculture is also important. european ports, shipping lanes and the shipping industry play an important role in the supply chain and in the links between european companies and the european market and the rest of the world. but these activities are much more, such as the extraction of oil, gas and other raw materials and resources or maritime and coastal tourism. to ensure sustainable economic growth and avoid conflicts between different sectors, it is necessary to coordinate the current and future needs of the maritime domain. i agree with the proposal that a procedural framework for the development and implementation of maritime spatial plans and integrated coastal zone management strategies should be established. we must work to secure the union's energy supply, to promote the development of maritime transport, to promote sustainable fisheries, and to preserve and protect the environment.
in writing. − i have agreed to the proposal as it is important to ensure that the delegated regulation on electronic procurement enters into force as soon as possible, bearing in mind that the essential provisions of the basic legislative act, including the provisions on the submission of declarations of performance, apply from 1 july 2013. the possibility of publishing these declarations online, in line with the legislative authority's wishes, would allow the construction product manufacturers to reduce costs and would also increase flexibility in the construction sector. the commission should have drawn up the delegated regulation in advance in order to avoid undue delay in derogating from the obligation for manufacturers to provide a copy of the declaration of performance in writing or electronically for each product placed on the market. it is essential that parliament and the council be able to exercise their legislative powers as defined in the treaties, as well as to decide which powers should be conferred on the commission in future basic legislative acts, and that parliament, together with experts from the member states and other stakeholders, be able to participate in transparent consultations prior to the adoption of a delegated act.
mr president, the report on ukraine went along with the situation. it was not as positive as expected and in some points it does not describe the situation absolutely correctly. i voted in favour, but something needs to be commented on. mr yanukovych should never be called ʻukraineʼ and his decision, or obedience to the decision of the kremlin, could be seen not as a harsh withdrawal from the neighbourhood agenda but rather as a disappointing postponement. of course it was an authoritarian step by two persons, rather than failure by the eu. we may appeal to moscow to ask permission for mr yanukovych to keep to his electoral promises, but we must also recognise that, long before this, our own policies have been too hesitant, without a clear line. step by step, the principle of openness of the eu became reality. the barriers put up to cope with homework as well – to ukraine some of them looked rather artificially hardened. the treatment of yulia tymoshenko lacks humanitarian and political neutrality. the request to change it was just and human. nevertheless the very formula about selective justice may be seen as hypocritical. while underlining that this sort of justice in the ukraine is to be condemned, we endorse scandalous selective justice on a gross scale towards millions of victims of both totalitarian tyrannies in europe, those who caused the second world war. victims of one of them are honoured; victims of the other are not.
in writing. - i fully support the position set out in this document. indeed, despite the fact that the amendments to the eu's basic law made by the lisbon treaty, which give the european parliament greater powers in the legislative field, have been in force for more than four years, the eu council often continues to ignore the european parliament and its position. the european parliament is the only institution directly elected by eu citizens, and the council of the eu must take account of the ep's position in the legislative process and align its negotiating positions with it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims to establish when sorted waste is not waste. the draft of this regulation defines that paper is not waste when the sorted waste is used as paper fibre for the production of paper, i.e. before it is processed in a paper mill, which is contrary to the current definition of recycling, according to which waste must be recycled. i therefore support the rapporteur's position to oppose the adoption of this council regulation.
mr president, systematic and state-sanctioned organ harvesting from prisoners of conscience in china, including from falun gong practitioners – according to the information i have received – in prison for their religious beliefs, is absolutely unacceptable and should be ended immediately. voluntary and informed consent is a precondition for ethical organ donation and this is not the case in china as far as i know, and my knowledge is based on the information i have. it is a shame that the great country china, which, a month ago, was elected to serve on the united nations human rights council for a period of three years, is on the list of countries with a lamentable human rights record. finally, all prisoners of conscience in china, including falun gong practitioners, should be released immediately.
in writing. – united nations human rights commissioner navi pillay visited sri lanka in august and welcomed the governmentʼs impressive achievements on resettlement, reconstruction and rehabilitation. we all welcomed the elections to the northern provincial council which were held successfully in september, and we hope for a constructive dialogue between the government and the new northern provincial council. certainly, there are issues to be resolved, but we call on the leadership of sri lanka and encourage them to take further steps in the same direction, i.e. towards reconstruction and reconciliation. speaking about reconciliation, we all understand what is needed to achieve it: political will, action and finally – time. the legacy of the war, which lasted for 26 years, is visible everywhere. let us remember how long it took for us europeans to achieve reconciliation. let us remember northern ireland or spain, at least. the european union should continue its support for the reconciliation process in sri lanka in order to achieve tangible results.
