in writing. i abstained on the grèze report. i believe that the genetic resources of the earth are the property of mankind and should be exploited for the benefit of all. with all due sympathy for all the tribes that occupy a given territory, they are not the ones who will develop the genetic resources of the corner of the earth that they usually occupy by chance. fish and shellfish are also not owned by the inhabitants of the coastal areas but are harvested by fishermen who sell them for profit. genetic resources should not be patented unless a human invention is involved in their processing, for example as a medicine. intellectual property may not cover the primary genetic resource, but only the processed product. this leaves the farmers' rights to use the seeds in their natural environment intact.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i was already a member of this house, which was not yet directly elected, when britain finally joined the economic community in 1973. i think we are now at a stage where the uk has to make its choice, because you cannot claim opt-outs forever and be served a la carte. either we participate or we do not participate, but you have to make your choice and listen to the economists in britain. they all recommend that you stay. but you cannot, as the germans say, "nur die korinthen vom kuchen haben und nicht den rest". so you have to make a choice.
madam president, i am not one of those who, in principle, reject the idea of debt pooling for member states sharing the same currency, but i cannot support the false idea that the issue of common debt instruments would be the way to solve the financial and monetary crisis. it is dangerous, and even demagogic, to sell this idea to public opinion, because eurobonds are ultimately about being collectively responsible for the debts of your neighbours. i fully understand the fears of the member states, let us say, less lax in the face of the lack of guarantees that seem to surround the project for the time being. rather than denouncing their intransigence, this parliament would have done better to go much further in defining those guarantees which would make it possible, precisely, to move forward. until now, the dikes that protected the common rules have never lasted long. we must therefore have the courage to impose a binding framework, for example by introducing a right of veto which would be exercised by the institutions of the european union before a national budget is adopted if a member state does not meet its budgetary commitments. the report by mrs goulard cannot be accepted without clarifying a vagueness which has been carefully preserved so as not to offend the left-wing groups. to overcome the reluctance clearly expressed by the member states, we should have had the courage to tackle the difficult issues with more determination and realism. since this has not really been done, i fear that today's exercise will be a bit in vain. it is a pity, because eurobonds are an important subject, provided that they are never seen as a convenience.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, there is no doubt that state aid issues are hugely important and they are always on the commission agenda. we constantly discuss concrete state aid cases and state aid proposals, and the possible misuse of state aid rules by member states which want to give state aid to certain companies or sectors. the commission’s role is to keep this under control. it is our mission not to allow unfair state aid which can distort competition. however, life goes on, times change, rules change and the economy changes, so the need to modernise the rules to make it more simple and transparent is an objective of paramount importance to the commission. what about the legal bases and how to organise this work? this is of course the decision of all legislative bodies of the commission but i can only assure you on behalf of the commission that parliament’s comments and opinions are extremely important to the commission as are all processes, including the consultation process, which is foreseen in today’s framework.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the commission thanks the honourable members of the committee on transport for the opportunity to continue the debate on revising directive 96/53/ec. the useful discussions which took place in spring 2012 highlighted the sensitivity surrounding longer trucks and the different interpretations which may exist on their treatment under the directive. they also confirmed that a clarification was needed on these points. the commission is finalising the revision of the directive. a proposal can be expected in the coming months and will follow the ordinary legislative procedure. the revision is needed to adapt the directive to technical developments and societal and economic imperatives, particularly in vehicle aerodynamics and intermodal transport. it will focus on changes which are expected to bring significant benefits by improving vehicle energy efficiency, connections between transport modes, as well as enforcement. these changes are first, to allow the aerodynamic streamlining of vehicles by adapting maximum lengths and the definition of technical requirements for boat tails and smart cabins; secondly, to facilitate the transport of 45 foot containers in intermodal transport; thirdly, to adapt maximum weights to promote the use of clean propulsion systems (electric, hybrid engines) and fourthly, to introduce provisions on enforcement to reduce overloading and therefore protect infrastructure from damage and improve road safety. regarding the question on cross-border traffic of longer trucks, we think that this issue can be discussed within this legislative procedure linked to this directive so we fully respect the committee’s opinion on this matter and we will then follow the committee’s opinion. the commission thanks parliament for the continuing discussions between the two institutions and hopes that the constructive debate and cooperation will continue once the proposal to revise directive 96/53/ec has been adopted.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. they have announced on several occasions, and are now announcing again, that they will submit a revision of directive 96/53 on the permissible dimensions and weights of certain vehicles. as you have just said, this directive is intended to take account of, among other things, the improvement of the aerodynamics and safety of vehicles, but also of environmental aspects, and to adapt vehicles to the current requirements of modern technology. my question in this connection is: will the commission take up what you promised in june, mr kallas, and also in a letter from president barroso, namely to provide legal clarity and legal certainty on the use of oversized lorries in so-called gigliners? this has been a controversial issue for some time, with some member states having good experiences, others less good, and others delaying or stopping their attempts. the problems are well known: the lack of road infrastructure, the unresolved questions of road safety, and the incompatibility of the idea of moving more traffic from the road to the railway. the cross-border use is also not clear. i therefore - and i agree entirely with our chairman, brian simpson - would like you to work with parliament to develop a coherent and clear position in the legal procedure. and in the context of this revision, it would be essential to review, for example, efficiency and current capacity. only together with parliament can we work out meaningful legislation. a one-sided interpretation by the commission is not helping anyone in the end. this is not a good thing for road users or for industry.
madam president, 2013 is the year of all risks. first, excessive rigidity can paralyse economic activity. secondly, the discontent of those threatened with poverty is putting us at risk of social unrest. thirdly, the reluctance of our governments to stimulate economic activity is putting us at risk of seeing efforts to reduce public deficits reduced to nothing. fourthly, in the field of foreign policy, the decision of several member states to reduce their official development assistance is damaging the credibility of the european union. it would be inappropriate, however, to attribute all the shortcomings to the presidency of the council. my question to the irish presidency, to which i wish a lot of success, is whether it still sees a critical mass of member states that are able to support it in moving things in the right direction.
mr president, we are all responsible for what has happened in bangladesh. the people who did not survive the fire in a production workshop on the outskirts of dhaka are also victims of a system that could be reduced to the german slogan geist ist geil, which roughly means: "the more shrewd you are, the smarter you are". the frantic search for the last penny of savings when buying a t-shirt is pushing producers in developing countries to produce ever cheaper products, to the point of neglecting the most basic standards of safety at work, not to mention the appalling wage conditions imposed, above all, on the women who work there. the absence of rules respecting a minimum of social rights in the wto is a disgrace. in no case, however, can these non-existent rules be extenuating circumstances for indifference and laissez-faire. if fair trade and, therefore, the will to boycott companies that subscribe to the so-called social minimum, does not succeed in improving the situation in the immediate term, at least, this attitude has the merit of reminding us that there are alternatives to our consumption habits. it is through the combination of political and citizens' initiatives that we begin to reverse the logic that has led to the disaster, which is, unfortunately, not an isolated case.
member of the commission. − madam president, as the honourable member, the chair of the committee on transport and tourism, points out in his question, the commission is aware that the conditions relating to carrying hand luggage vary considerably among airlines. this includes the degree of strictness with which even the same airlines applies these terms and conditions in practice. this has to be seen as a reflection of the diversity of services that are now available to passengers in a very competitive market. the freedom of air carriers to set airfares and conditions is one of the cornerstones of the aviation single market. it has caused offers to increase and prices to fall for the benefit of consumers and businesses. the commission considers that air carriers are free to set their own terms and conditions. this has to be done transparently and in line with the relevant eu legislation, namely the air services regulation (ec) no 1008/2008 and regulation (ec) no 889/2002 on air carriers’ liability in the event of accidents. if the market functions and information is transparently available, this may become a criterion for choosing one airline rather than another. when it comes to passenger rights, passengers have the right to know the conditions whereby they can carry luggage in accordance with the principle of transparency, as laid down in the existing legislation. the commission therefore considers that by providing better information to passengers, the issue of inconsistencies among airlines and application of the luggage handling procedure can be effectively addressed. the second way of addressing this must be better enforcement of existing legislation. the role of the national enforcement bodies regarding luggage may also be considered as part of the review of air passengers’ rights, legislation which will be presented during the first half of 2013. the commission takes note that part of the industry considers that the one-bag policy respects the interests of retailers and airports. the commission takes the view that commercial relationships are a matter to be agreed by airports and airlines and our airlines and passengers, provided that they do not pose a risk to safety or security rules.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. we are receiving more and more complaints from european citizens who complain about arbitrary rules and restrictions on carrying hand luggage on board airplanes. the lack of clear and precise definitions of baggage and hand luggage has led to a veritable arbitrariness on the part of various airlines, and the loopholes in the current legal situation are exploited to - as i said - literally take money out of the pockets of passengers through unorthodox practices. ground staff harass passengers, who then have to leave their airport grocery store purchases or laptop bags behind when they board the plane. it is therefore urgent to introduce clear and uniform rules for the carriage of hand luggage across the eu. i have already mentioned this in my own report on passenger rights. i have repeatedly called on the commission to propose measures on uniform standards for the carriage of hand luggage in order to protect passengers from these excessive restrictive practices. i would also like to point out in this context that there are no rules on the taking of musical instruments by professional musicians, who are also subject to arbitrariness. i believe that the revision of regulation 261 of 2004 on passenger rights, which you have mentioned, would now be an appropriate framework to solve these problems once and for all, so that the ecj does not have to clarify these issues again, but the commission acts proactively and presents legislation.
member of the commission. − mr president, european union law permeates a wide number and diverse range of activities at national level. its impact on the daily life of citizens and businesses is high, as union law creates rights and obligations which national courts must safeguard. and european law is not static, but results from a dynamic and open process of lawmaking and legal interpretation. this means that every national lawyer and every national judge must also be a european law expert. they must be capable of interpreting and effectively enforcing eu law alongside their own domestic law, and in the union’s decentralised legal system national judges must become true union law judges to be able to comply with their responsibilities. the national judge has therefore become the frontline judge of european union law, and legal practitioners and authorities will be called upon increasingly in the european area of justice to understand and apply decisions made in other member states. they will also be called upon to live up to common minimum standards so that authorities in other countries will be able to trust those decisions. meeting these challenges requires, first of all, well-informed and well-trained legal practitioners. the commission also agrees that judicial training needs to be complemented by other means, such as easy access to judicial decisions. networks of court coordinators on eu law could contribute to this aim. however, they need to complement existing judicial networks in order to avoid duplications. the commission will, in close cooperation with parliament, continue working on the tracks laid down in the communication of september 2011 to meet the objective of enabling half of the legal practitioners in the european union to participate in european judicial training activities by 2020. this will be achieved through the use of all available resources at local, national and european level. the commission thanks parliament and appreciates its steadfast support on matters of judicial training.
member of the commission. − mr president, the use of certain traditional terms to describe wine is a long-established practice in the european union. following the 2008 wine reform, a common framework laid down the rules concerning the recognition, protection and use of such traditional terms. it defined, in particular, a new procedure to confer protection. this procedure affects both eu and third-country wine marketed in the european union. the us has always been sceptical about the eu traditional terms policy and therefore took a very critical approach regarding this policy. the 2006 eu-us wine agreement constituted a first step in the discussion on traditional terms between the us and the eu as it provided for an exception for the use of the term ‘château’ for us wines imported into the eu which have a traditional presentation and a trademark registered in the eu before 10 march 2006. moreover, a transitional period of three years was allowed for us wines bearing eu traditional terms, such as ‘château’, to be marketed on the eu market. this transitional period expired in march 2009. in june 2010 the two most important us wine associations, wine america and the wine institute, applied for the recognition of ‘château’ in the eu as a traditional term for us wines imported into the eu. the term ‘château’, besides french wines, is used by luxembourg, italian, chilean and canadian wines. the definition included in the application is close, but not identical, to the term already protected for eu member states. following the examination in accordance with the new eu procedure, the application was published for the purpose of establishing whether there were any objections. in this context, france opposed this recognition, arguing that the proposed us conditions for the use of the term ‘château’ would mislead french consumers. the commission is aware of the sensitivity of this issue. the commission is still evaluating the case and will take the time needed to carry out an in-depth assessment of the situation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i am once again in this gallery to defend the european wine sector, our heritage, our traditions, our intellectual property, in short a sector in which europe is still a champion as a producer and exporter. after rosé wine and planting rights, this time, as you said, the commission must be made to understand that there can be no question of allowing the united states to abuse ad vitam æternam the traditional terms 'château' and 'clos' for their wines marketed in the territory of the european union. under no circumstances, commissioner, for any reason of foreign trade policy, can you make concessions to the united states to perpetuate the misuse of our appellations and thus create distortions of competition at the expense of european quality wines. furthermore, you are unaware of the sine qua non of a common legal definition of the term "castle", which is not fulfilled. moreover, why did the commission publish in the official journal a definition which does not correspond at all to the definition published in 2009 by the us applicant? i know that community law allows recognition of the regulations of a trade union in a third country, but they must be consistent and serious, and that is not the case here. i know, commissioner, that it is not pleasant to replace your colleague here, but i must say that if this is a technical question, it is also highly political. pass the message to mr cioloș: we must stop repeating this case.
the question is "blue cardboard". according to mr eickhout, the eib should be an environmental agency. i am happy that it is supporting green economy projects, but if there were to be, as they say, 2 million jobs in this sector, then there are 26 million unemployed, which means that the eib must also support the rest of the real economy. or does mr eickhout think that we can only support green businesses?
mr president, mr president of the european investment bank, i would first like to return to the growth pact and the role of the european investment bank. in this period of austerity, i think everyone agrees that we need to do a different policy and reinvest in europe. in june last year, at the instigation of president hollande, the heads of state agreed to the growth pact and to an increase of 10 billion in the budget of the european investment bank. since that decision and until today, we find ourselves in a nebula and we hear a lot of rumors. i think it is also your duty to tell us what is happening inside the eib's board of directors in implementing this capital increase. is it true that some finance ministers or their representatives in certain aaa countries do not want the entire 10 billion to be used to generate new credit and investment opportunities? is it true that you are under enormous pressure to concentrate the majority of new appropriations on project finance in the aaa countries and not in the countries that need it most? is it the role of the european investment bank to help germany to invest more, when the german kfw, if i am not mistaken, is able to raise capital on the international markets at credit rates lower than those of the european investment bank? you are here in a room with friends from the european investment bank, but the bank - and mrs podimata has said this - must be more useful than private banks and, above all, help us in this crisis which is affecting the countries of the south and the east in particular. we as parliamentarians want to understand where the real blockages are within the eib's board of directors and where the investment programme is. i support mr audy's idea, by the way. if we were politically able to have a multiannual plan to move from a virtual contribution in the form of a guarantee to a real contribution from governments, in a perspective of eight to ten years, we would have a real counter-cyclical investment instrument with the european investment bank. it would therefore be useful if you, as president, took a stand on this matter. the second point i would like to touch on briefly is the mechanism for interconnection in europe and the project-financing bond. the european parliament has adopted compromise amendment no 20 in which we explicitly open up this mechanism to such bonds and also to renewable energy projects. how do you see the use of bonds to finance projects in connection with the connecting europe facility? i will close with one last point, which i will address in english. this concerns this very critical project in slovenia, this brown coal (lignite) project in šoštanj. part of the credit from the eib has been given to this project. we know today that this project is not only a disaster for climate change and maybe our climate commissioner could give us a statement on what use there is in public european money going into a brown coal power plant which will pollute the climate for the next 50 years but it is above all an enormous risk for the eib. we know that olaf is carrying out an investigation. we know that the ebrd is also reconsidering whether there may have been fraud and corruption in the setting up of this project. do you really want, as the leader of this important european institution, to take the risk today of delivering the rest of the credit when every week we hear from slovenia more details on corruption? what if in one year or one and a half years' time it becomes even clearer that this power plant and the whole process of deciding on it were a big mistake made under not very clear conditions? we'd like to have a statement on that from you today.
mr president, my speech is intended above all to highlight the potential of the european investment bank. this bank is really not a bank like the others. not only has it escaped the criticism that has been directed at the banking sector since the start of the 2008 crisis, but it has also steadily consolidated its image as an efficient and reliable actor. the european investment bank is involved in major infrastructure projects in the energy sector both within and outside the union. she's become a very important actor. as a bank and institution, it has two major advantages in its action: it has both the necessary flexibility, without which any progress remains illusory, and the quality of a financial institution of the european union, without which it would not have the same authority. it even intervenes, albeit indirectly, in the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, a sector which continues to suffer from the viscosity of the interbank market. but my point is this: its expertise and know-how predestine the european investment bank to play a major role in the future in the field of development cooperation and, more particularly, in the promotion of inclusive growth, a concept which the european parliament very largely supports through the future development agenda. to be able to identify in a project the part which serves to eradicate poverty and make that part eligible for official development assistance, on the one hand, and to make the self-supporting economic part be borne by financing borne by the beneficiary, who would be better placed than the european investment bank to decide in such cases? i would like to hear from the eib officials, and in particular from its president, what they think about this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the hohlmeier report, of course, but if different amendments had been adopted, i would not have voted for it. i would like to say a few words about amendment no 13 by the gue. the gue thinks we don't need a ride-hailing service. they have not got away with it, of course, but i am happy to accept the gue colleagues, our communist colleagues, because i am the quaestor responsible for the transport service and will no longer provide the transport service to gue members. (applause from the centre)
in writing. - i have of course agreed to this report by mrs hohlmeier, which is in itself a sensible report. i would not have done so if various amendments had been adopted. as for amendment no 13 by the gue, which was not adopted, i could however agree with the communist colleagues who are calling for the abolition of transport services for members. as the quaestor responsible for the driving service, i can gladly instruct him not to drive the gue members any more. i hope they'll be consistent. i would have liked to have voted against paragraph 10 which calls for a moratorium on building policy until the end of the current parliamentary term. why would we want to build ourselves the possibility of taking a good opportunity, if it arises, in the next 15 months to buy a building that we need and save money in the medium term?
mr president, first i want to congratulate our colleague mr correia de campos for this result, and all the parliament team. infrastructure is key to developing a functioning internal market and it is also key to integrating the technology of today, which is renewable energy. one should be aware that all the high voltage lines which exist today in france were built when france developed its nuclear programme in the 1970s, and we chose to do the same. with certain technologies you need a certain grid, and therefore it is only normal that the grid now be made fit for use as infrastructure. i have one concrete question to the commissioner: there seems to be some misinterpretation in the commission of the role of financial instruments in helping to finance electricity and gas infrastructure in europe, so we have tabled under the seff the possibility of having more money for financial instruments – and this will, of course, become even more relevant if we get less money from the council. so could he make a clear statement on the importance of project bonds and financial instruments in helping to leverage the seff money?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not first of all, i would like to thank mrs tzavela, also on behalf of mr jadot, who negotiated for the greens. i would like to make two comments. firstly, the commissioner is right when he says that we need binding targets for 2030 for the climate, for renewable energy, and i would also say for energy efficiency. because energy efficiency is the only realistic answer to energy poverty. we don't have to pretend. we don't set the world price of oil. the only thing we can do is help citizens get off oil heating, and help citizens get car companies to build efficient cars. okay, there are some here who believe in the miracle of shale gas. but you have to be realistic about this. first of all, it's a huge mess for the environment. secondly, shale gas in europe will be a price taker and not a price giver. it may be a small reduction. but to dream of gas prices like in the us, that is not possible by itself from the structural point of view, because our gas market is a pipeline market. that is why, even with gas, energy efficiency is the only answer. mrs jordan is right when she says that two thirds of the power stations and almost as many high-voltage lines in the electricity sector now need to be replaced. how can this be accompanied by an artificially low electricity price? if i don't give the investors a profit per unit, then no one will invest. so we have to be more efficient to keep costs down. secondly, i would like to raise the issue of whether these models should be transparent and also up to date. your current model has two flaws in my opinion: firstly, it has not considered a scenario that is highly efficient and highly renewable, which is the most plausible scenario. second, in your scenario, the cost of pv is set too high. they're already lower than in your 2020 model. and the cost of nuclear is way too low. that means that you may also have to make sure that your costs are in line with the actual costs of today, because otherwise you are giving us as policy makers the wrong signals. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the blue card procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
blue-card answer. – graham, i think you are right about renewables. with the sun and wind we have enough energy to power the world, and i hope that you will support our call for a 100% renewable energy economy. but being efficient will allow us to have a 100% renewable economy at lower cost. all the studies show that energy efficiency is always cheaper than new investments, and that is why we need to complete the triangle: energy efficiency, renewables and intelligent grids, which form the link between the two.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not commissioner, i am afraid that these stress tests are light. it may not have been what you wanted, but france and england have prevailed. the really dangerous terrorist attacks and plane crashes have not been tested. i am a citizen of luxembourg, a country which will cease to exist if something happens in cattenom. then a whole nation is gone. i have a different view of how sharp these stress tests were. i am afraid that these stress tests for renewal of the lease will be abused and that we in europe will also be hit by something like this. so there is a second construction site, which is extremely important: you are well known we are here amongst baden-württembergers: taxpayers should be treated fairly. that is not the case in japan. tepco is bankrupt, and the taxpayer is now paying over 100 billion euros for this accident. there are no serious insurance policies in europe. i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good one. it is not possible that you can put a solar system on the roof and then have to pay full insurance, and in fessenheim and cattenom and elsewhere there is no insurance or only a very small one.
in writing. the adoption of these two economic governance regulations is an important step towards strengthening fiscal discipline, the non-compliance of which by member states has permanently weakened the euro area. in the field of budgetary surveillance, it is essential that the commission has powers of injunction against member states which do not respect their commitments. i am, however, concerned about the increasingly illegible legislative and legal framework surrounding the single currency. by repeatedly revising the stability pact, by adding the 'six-pack' and then the 'two-pack', the euro area has acquired a magma of incomprehensible rules. in addition, with the imminent implementation of the intergovernmental tax treaty, the confusion is at its peak. the re-establishment of the euro area, on the contrary, requires simple, transparent and, above all, understandable rules for our fellow citizens. the european institutions will soon have to exercise a veto on national budgets that are unbalanced or in default. contrary to what the left in this house is advocating, new instruments such as redemption funds or 'euro bonds' will only be able to be introduced once the member states have relinquished their budgetary sovereignty. to pretend otherwise is a delusion.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our committee on agriculture has considered the proposals of commissioner cioloş for reasonable compromises. i'm not happy with some of the details either, but that's the way it is with compromises. i am appalled by the misinformation and the lack of understanding of the scoundrels of the ngos, who unfortunately also threaten to deceive many politicians in this house, because they are afraid of their reprehensible methods of blackmail, to which we have been subjected in particular for the last few weeks - and also this week. we need a healthy mix of organic and conventional farmers, and i'm not saying that conventional farmers shouldn't make efforts to protect the environment. greening the cap certainly makes sense in some regions of europe. but greening is pointless on land where organic farming is practiced or where there are sophisticated agro-environmental programmes, because that would be double greening, with the result that even the best pupils are punished in terms of environmental protection. i also have to disagree with the green lobby on the ecological focus area. if we make the mistake of imposing a 7% or more efa, too many areas would have to be taken out of production and consequently we would have to import additional food, which would cause food prices to explode in developing countries too. i can't believe greenpeace, caritas and all of them don't get it. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire in a member state is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the commission and the council must be aware that we are making use of our full right of co-decision.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is exactly what you said yourself: i believe that after an incident like this, it is not the moment to analyze or find out who was at what time in what place. but i do not think that under the circumstances we can go on with the agenda. what happened this morning is the result of many factors in this house that have to do with not everything going right. i think there is no better way of documenting that a lot has gone wrong here, and there is no better way of showing that we are now concerned about mr papastamkos than to decide that the work of this week's sitting, at least as far as voting is concerned, should end at this point, so as not to find ourselves in a similar situation again and so as not to find ourselves in a situation tomorrow where each one of us is imagining for himself that he has been pressing buttons for two and a half hours and does not know why. i would ask you and i would ask the house to allow it to stand at this time under these circumstances for this week.
mr president, ever since the tragedy in syria began, the international community has repeatedly said that there is no military solution to this conflict. on the one hand we have the syrian regime armed to the teeth, with tanks, planes and probably chemical weapons. on the other hand, we see the anti-assad coalition exposed, without adequate defenses, to the barbarism of a dictator who targets his own people, who aspire to be able to live a normal life, enjoying the most basic fundamental rights and freedoms. we can only see our inability to do, on the military level, what would be necessary to hasten the establishment of a political process. however, the effective alternative to military aid, including the supply of arms to rebel forces, is not seen as a viable option, especially as the assad regime sees its arms supplies being secured, inter alia, by a member state of the un security council. our hopes, therefore, in these dramatic times, are directed to two other members of the security council, in this case the united kingdom and france, which have proved in the past that it is not necessary to wait for the agreement of the twenty-seven to take the appropriate measures. one last word about mrs georgieva's humanitarian work. i would like to emphasize that his action is exemplary. let us not, in our comments, reduce its action to its inability to reach all the victims. she's really the last person to have to take on that responsibility. (applause) i would like to thank
in writing. the share of agriculture in gross national income is far from reflecting its importance in the economic, social, environmental and political reality of our societies. reforming the cap means preparing our farmers to meet the different expectations of their fellow citizens. reforming the cap is about helping to maintain soil fertility in the long term. reforming the cap means becoming a player in sustainable development. reforming the cap means developing partnerships with the southern regions of the world on responsible land use. preparing for the agriculture of tomorrow means defeating hunger through production methods that respect the imperatives of the environment. ensuring the future of agriculture means respecting the farmer as a citizen, as a food producer and as a rural animator. respect for the farmer means adopting a policy at both national and european level which can guarantee him a decent income.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agricultural package with the large majority of my group. the strategy of the chairman of the committee on agriculture, mr paolo de castro, and of the chief rapporteur, mr luis manuel capoulas santos, in whose expertise i have full confidence, has been adopted. parliament can now, with the support of a large majority of its members, negotiate with the council to reach a compromise acceptable to european agriculture. european agriculture must continue to be able to provide the european population with good and healthy food. europe is becoming more and more dependent on imports. without soybean and maize imports, european livestock farming would collapse. europe is no longer self-sufficient in sugar. in view of the tensions in world food prices, caution is warranted. that is why i am not in favour of the campaigns of some ngos which want to turn farmers into 'green garden dwarfs'. the european cultural landscape is characterised by agriculture. it is farmers, ranchers and winegrowers who have shaped our natural environment. the primary objective of the european agricultural policy must be to maintain sufficient holdings, which is why targeted direct aids remain necessary.
in writing. i abstained on the tzavela report because i think the exercise of wanting to define a roadmap for energy by 2050 is very presumptuous. the european union should focus its efforts on achieving the targets set for 2020, which will be difficult enough. trying to plot in 2013 the possible futures up to 2050 is certainly doomed to failure. no one knows what technologies will emerge during this period, nor what the energy vectors of the future will be. renewables, of course, but humans can't do without nuclear or coal. oil and natural gas are more plentiful than the peak oilers want to admit. shale gas, oil sands are changing the game in the global energy mix. japan has just proved that methane hydrates can be converted into easily usable energy. these methane hydrates are the most abundant energy source known today. by 2050, technology will change at least twice. why would you want to set goals in 2013 for 2050 that will already be obsolete by 2020?
in writing. no to an anti-industrial policy i am against the backloading of the emissions trading system. it's a crooked, unjust system. some markets have been closed for months because of fraud, forged certificates and the speculative madness of the financial markets. now the commission wants to manipulate the market to raise prices. the result will be an additional burden for industry which wants to continue to invest and produce in europe. the european union is the only one to continue the kyoto protocol recipes. the united states, china, india, russia, brazil did not follow. canada, japan, new zealand and others have pulled out of kyoto. europe, whose emissions have fallen to less than 11% of global emissions, will not be able to bear the full burden of the fight against emissions. the commission has just officially acknowledged that the real electricity price increased by an average of 38% for the industrial sector from 2005 to 2012, while in the usa it fell by 4%. and we are surprised by the crisis in steel, automobile etc.!
in writing. ets exemption for aviation i voted to abolish the emission quotas imposed on international civil aviation. the commission had referred to the kyoto protocol. the latter excluded the aviation and maritime sectors. nevertheless, the eu wanted to set an "example" for the rest of the world. the us congress then passed a law that forbade airlines from paying emissions taxes in europe. obama signed that bill, and now europe is backtracking.
in writing. i commend the rapporteur for his persistence in this highly technical and political issue. the crr/crd 4 agreement faithfully transposes the rules of the basel committee, demonstrating the european will to be at the forefront of financial regulation initiatives. the new liquidity rules are a major pillar of the new prudential framework. the gradual introduction of liquidity ratios is welcome, as it reconciles prudential imperatives with flexibility for banks to provide financing for the economy. the new rules also allow member states to impose additional capital buffers to cover overall systemic risk in the financial sector and systemic risk specific to banks. these provisions are necessary; however, we must remain vigilant in ensuring their consistent application in order to avoid fragmentation of the internal market. i am not going to go into the limitations of bonuses, which is a subject that has obscured all the others, but which seems to me to be of secondary importance. i am not sure that the public authorities are involved in setting wages, even though there are real excesses in the financial sector which have had disastrous effects. in conclusion, the key to financial regulation is not the establishment of a more appropriate regulatory framework, but the quality of day-to-day supervision. the responsibilities conferred on the ecb in the future single supervisory system will be considerable. it will be the lead supervisor for the implementation of crd 4 by banks.
in writing. - i voted against the proposal on ground transport services because i was not convinced by the text in question: further liberalisation and a greater number of providers cannot automatically improve the quality or efficiency of ground handling services. on the contrary, the pressure on workers in this sector will continue to increase and further opening of the market will inevitably result in wage dumping. even the safety of passengers could be jeopardized by the use of unskilled and cheap temporary workers. this regulation does not leave member states any scope for adapting the text of the law to the particular situations of the various airports. in a highly sensitive sector where safety-relevant work is carried out, it is imperative to employ only well-trained and reliable staff. we cannot continue to impose increased safety measures on air traffic personnel and passengers and go in the opposite direction on ground traffic personnel. sustainable value creation for companies, employees and customers is achieved only through high quality, efficiency and stable, decent wages and working conditions, not through increased competition.
in writing. airport stopover assistance services. i voted against the commission's proposal on airport services. the commission, as usual, wants more competition for groundhandling, by imposing a minimum of three service providers per airport. in small airports this will not lead to more competition, but to more pressure on the staff of the three airlines, which will only be able to survive if they continually cut their costs. the commission's aviation policy is a total failure. all european airports and all airlines are losing speed. international civil aviation is developing outside europe.
the question is "blue cardboard". madam president, mr bloom has just told us all about his anger, his anger and his grumbling against the euro and the european central bank. he tells us that the euro is doomed. can he tell us why his country, which is not a member of the eurozone, has economic indicators that are not terrible and why britain, for the last ten years, has always had more inflation than the eurozone? has the european central bank's policy really been as bad as he claims?
madam president, unlike my colleague, werner langen, i would like to congratulate mario draghi on his energetic work as head of the ecb. by relying on the independence of its bank guaranteed by the treaties, it has successfully countered the speculators. the ecb's announcement that it was ready to intervene without limitation in the secondary markets for bonds issued by the euro area countries was the turning point in the euro area crisis. this determination of the ecb has impressed the markets, while the ballet of hesitation and half-measures by the so-called leaders has continually put our union under pressure. i expect the ecb to take further unorthodox measures to combat speculation and stimulate the economy. it is not inflation that threatens europe, but deflation. even if the ecb does not have the same powers as the federal reserve, the bank of japan or the bank of england, it should be inspired by the actions of these central banks, which, one after another, leave the dead-end path of orthodoxy. the result is already visible in the united states. even if some german professors do not like it, the ecb is currently the only institution capable of bringing europe out of the current economic slump and giving hope to the more than 26 million unemployed. the european union is not a party to the conflict. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr eppink could have consulted other statistics than those on employment for last march. i would like to see more than 80 000 new jobs created every month in our european union. i would like to see an economic recovery, like in the united states. i would like to see a recovery in the industrial sectors, as in the united states. while in the united states energy is getting cheaper, in europe it is getting more expensive. while consumer confidence in the united states is rising, it is falling in europe. i still believe that the federal reserve has done a great deal for the united states of america and that there is now a real chance that the federal reserve will once again become a driving force for global growth.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to say thank you very much to all the members of this parliament who have intervened in this debate. i have noted many ideas, comments and suggestions. maybe i cannot respond to all the aspects that you touched upon but let me very quickly refer to some of them. on simplification: these guidelines – as in general with the new generation of guidelines under the state aid modernisation strategy – will make things simpler. we will cut red tape and increase the bloc exemption, but at the same time when analysing case by case we will be stricter, looking at the incentive effect, the existence of a market failure, the existence of a proportionality between the aid and the need to solve problems in the market to increase our growth and expectations. i think all of us will agree on this. of course, i will be very happy to discuss all these issues with the whole committee in greater detail. ms kleva referred to the slovenian problem – i have discussed this with the slovenian authorities and this will be resolved. do not worry about this. on the question of large companies: this has been, and is still, one of the issues under discussion. we did not change in the original draft of the guidelines the treatment of large companies in the so-called ‘a’ areas (regions below 75% of average eu gdp per capita), and in our initial proposal we considered that large companies in ‘c’ areas (above 75%) should get compatible aid provided they comply with sectoral guidelines, research, development and innovation, energy and environment, broadband guidelines, risk capital guidelines and so on, and because these investments take place in an assisted region we might include an add-on with slightly higher aid intensity than if they invested in london, brussels or luxembourg. i will continue to receive comments and have informed some of my interlocutors in these negotiations in advance that i can consider – and we are considering – the possibility of opening the door to some compatible aid for investors – large companies investing in ‘c’ areas that cannot be included in these sectoral guidelines that i mentioned – provided that there are clear positive externalities because of the investment in this particular region. we are considering different options. one is to declare the investment compatible if there is a greenfield investment and if the incentive effect is real. there are other possibilities. we are still discussing this issue, which is very important. but let me tell you, i agree with all of you who mentioned smes because the real beneficiaries of this aid – the real incentive effect of this aid – is linked to smes and in particular to new initiatives – and by definition a new initiative in general starts out as a small initiative, and if it is a successful initiative it will grow on its merits. this continues to be my position. i do not exclude some opening in the treatment of large companies, with very strict criteria, but again i repeat my view that we are creating a framework – or updating a framework – because we want to encourage more small and medium-sized enterprises or investors which are creating new activity and new jobs and not simply transposing activity from one part of the eu to another. this is the reason why i take good note of all your comments on the need to consider the possible extension from five to ten years of the ban on relocating for a company which receives state aid – unless of course it reimburses the state aid. we will continue to analyse this. i do not understand why some of you refer to negative treatment of outermost regions. the outermost regions are treated very well in this framework, and i do not see in this framework – in the new text – any change for the worse when i compare the treatment that we want to include for outermost regions in the new guidelines with their treatment under the present guidelines. i see some improvements but not a single step backwards. my last comment will be on border regions: the treatment of border regions which are part of highly industrialised member states or regions but which border regions of another member state for which high aid intensity is provided. this rule of a maximum gap of 15% is in our proposal – yes, it is in our proposal and, believe me, i know my proposal – and if you want to increase this gap i will say ‘no’. a 15% gap is in our proposal, and probably, in the case of your regions – or in the case of other border regions – the real gap, because of modifications in their respective aid intensities, would be lower. there is just one caveat, namely that the member states’ authorities include these border regions in the national map. they have room for manoeuvre to do so, but i believe in the subsidiarity principle. i do not think that a directorate-general or a commissioner in brussels should decide everything in the life of our regions and sub-regions. it is up to your authorities in germany, austria or any other member state – and under the present guidelines, if i remember correctly, nine member states have used this possibility – when drafting the national map to include some border regions to reduce this gap. if your federal authorities, in agreement with the länder in germany or in austria, so decide, the maximum gap will be 15% and maybe in some cases lower than 15%.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, the presidency has been following closely the issue which is the subject of your debate this morning. we are of course very well aware of the concerns which have been expressed by a number of political groups in this house following the amendments to the hungarian constitution which were adopted recently by the hungarian parliament. you have requested that the council participate in this debate, and the irish presidency, representing the council, is happy to do so. however, i have to make it clear that the council has not discussed the situation in hungary, nor has it agreed any position on this issue. since i speak on behalf of the council, it follows that i am not in a position to make a substantive contribution to this morning’s debate. the commissioner will – i am sure – wish to update us on the latest developments with regard to hungary, but before that i would like to make a few general remarks. the context to our discussion this morning is of course that the european union is founded on certain basic values which are set out in the treaty, and which are also contained in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. these rights, freedoms and principles are also enshrined in the constitutional traditions of the member states and the european convention on human rights, to which the european union will shortly accede and to which all eu member states are party. the council attaches particular importance to ensuring that these rights, freedoms and values are fully respected, and i know that this house shares this view. however, this is a matter in the first instance for the commission, which is charged with ensuring the application of the treaties and is responsible for promoting the general interest of the union. the commission president has, together with the secretary-general of the council of europe, raised concerns over the amendments introduced to the hungarian constitution in relation to the extent to which these respect the principle of the rule of law, eu law and council of europe standards. we are also aware that there have been contacts between the commission and the hungarian authorities. i am sure that the commissioner will have more to say on this in a moment. i am pleased to note in this regard that prime minister orbán, in his letter to president barroso, has committed that he has already initiated the necessary legislative steps to follow up on the points raised by the commission. whilst the council is always concerned to ensure that the basic values of the union are respected, no procedure involving the council linked to respect for the values of the union by hungary has to date been invoked. for the irish presidency, the promotion of the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights are important priorities. equality, tolerance, respect for human rights and the rule of law are the values on which our union is founded. i wish to mention that the irish presidency, in consultation with the commission, suggested that a mechanism to better support the protection of fundamental rights and the rule of law in member states might make a useful contribution. it could cover the sharing of best practice, benchmarking, the evaluation of outcomes in an objective way and formulating appropriate recommendations and guidelines for action. this idea will feature when the presidency hosts a conference in dublin on 9 and 10 may to discuss ways to strengthen the protection of fundamental rights and promote the rule of law, in an effort to build understanding and support on this important subject. i am not in a position to say any more at this stage. i speak as the presidency of the council, and therefore in the name of all 27 of its members. i will, however, follow this debate closely and can assure members that i will pay particular attention to the range of views which will doubtless be expressed here this morning.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, colleagues, ministers, honourable members, i want to thank the president of the commission for having tabled this discussion. this is a subject that attracts a lot of attention, and the european parliament is the right place to discuss the eu institutions and matters related to the values and principles on which the european union is founded. today i represent president barroso and the european commission. i would like to underline clearly the role and the approach of the commission. i will give you an overview of where we stand with regard to the specific issues in question. the commission has been closely monitoring developments since 2011, and i would like to remind you that president barroso was in this house one year ago. on that occasion, he informed you about the commission’s position. since 2011 the commission has played an active role as guardian of the treaties and has assessed legislation to ensure that it is in compliance with eu law. it has introduced infringement procedures: some have been launched, others are pending, and others have been brought to judgment by the court of justice, where the commission’s interpretation of eu law has been borne out. we now expect the hungarian authorities to fully comply with the judgment of the court. i would like briefly to recall recent developments in hungary. on 11 march the hungarian parliament adopted the fourth amendment to the fundamental law of hungary. the week before – and with the full collaboration of the secretary-general of the council of europe, mr jagland – president barroso spoke with prime minister orbán. he communicated the commission’s concerns on the conformity of the fourth amendment with eu law and with the principle of the rule of law, which is a core european value. on 11 march, president barroso and secretary-general jagland issued a joint statement. they expressed the shared concerns of both the commission and the council of europe with respect to the principles of the rule of law, eu law and council of europe standards. in this context, allow me to quote secretary-general jagland, who said that: ‘the hungarian government is reintroducing the transitional provisions which were annulled by the constitutional court. this gives the impression that the government is willing to use the two-thirds parliamentary majority to overrule the constitutional court, which might endanger the fundamental principle of checks and balances in a democracy.’ this is what secretary-general jagland said. these serious concerns need to be addressed in hungary, and the commission has therefore appealed to prime minister orbán and his government to address and tackle them in a determined and unambiguous way. the commission is currently carrying out a detailed legal analysis of the amendments. the commission’s legal analysis is progressing at a steady pace, in an objective, non-partisan and fair manner and in full respect of eu law and principles. that is what we have always done in all other situations in other member states, including in romania. we are also working very closely with the venice commission of the council of europe, which, as you know, will deliver an opinion on the compatibility of the amendments with the principles of the rule of law by mid-june. based on a first analysis of our legal service, president barroso wrote to prime minister orbán on 12 april expressing the commission’s serious concerns regarding the conformity of the amendments with eu law. prime minister orbán replied to this letter on the same day and declared that he was ready to cooperate and to pay full attention to the concerns raised. he informed the commission that he had already initiated the necessary steps to address the concerns. he also reiterated his personal commitment to european norms and values, as well as that of his government and of the hungarian parliament. let us come back to the letter of president barroso. there are three main issues: firstly, a clause, introduced by article 17 of the fourth amendment to the hungarian fundamental law, on european court of justice judgments entailing payment obligations. the implementation of this provision would mean that hungary would introduce an ad-hoc tax on hungarian citizens should hungary be fined for breach of eu law. now the question is, is it really sensible to make citizens pay a tax whenever the state fails to comply with eu law? in practice, citizens would be penalised twice: firstly by not having their rights under eu law upheld, and secondly by having to pay for this. now let us turn to the constitution and the treaty. this could undermine the authority of the court of justice and constitute a violation of hungary’s duty of sincere cooperation, which is enshrined in article 4 (3) of the treaty on the european union. secondly, with regard to the broad powers given by article 14 of the fourth amendment – enabling the president of the national office for the judiciary to transfer cases from one court to another – the council of europe and the commission expressed their concerns about this issue last year. however, a change has now been made which empowers an administrative office to transfer cases from one court to another. if applied to a case concerning eu law, this could raise issues of incompatibility with the eu obligation to provide for remedies sufficient to ensure effective legal protection, and to the right to a fair trial, as provided for by the charter of fundamental rights. every citizen has the right to have a pre-established and reviewable decision on which judge will hear his or her case. this is essential in a democracy in order to prevent arbitrariness. the commission raised this matter with the hungarian authorities last year, and it reserves the right to launch an infringement procedure on this matter. on 12 april the hungarian authorities forwarded a draft law to the commission that would modify the rules on the application of the transfer of cases. according to the authorities, this would address the venice commission’s concerns. we are carefully assessing this text. thirdly, the restrictions introduced by article 5.1 of the fourth amendment to the publication of political advertisements. this article provides for restrictions on the publication of political advertisements during election campaigns, including elections to the european parliament. we all know that limitations may be acceptable in some cases – they are lawful if they are duly justified and proportionate. according to this provision, political advertisements may only be published on public media services. it should be noted that the audience share of private media, where the restrictions would apply, represents roughly 80% in hungary. on 15 april, the hungarian authorities wrote to the commission submitting a change to those rules. the new draft rules will be subjected to a very detailed analysis. members of parliament, this list is by no means exhaustive, and the commission will continue its legal analysis on the matter. once the legal analysis is finalised, the commission will, where relevant, take the necessary steps in order to start infringement procedures. the commission’s analysis will be thorough, sound and objective; it will reflect the special responsibility and the quasi-jurisdictional role of the commission as guardian of the treaties. this is the latest development, but let me stress that this is not the first time the commission has had to intervene in hungary. last year the commission launched two infringement cases against hungary. as you will recall, the first case concerned the forced early retirement of judges. in november last year, the court of justice confirmed the commission’s legal analysis and declared the relevant hungarian legislation incompatible with eu law. hungary is required to take the necessary measures to comply with the judgment of the court, and the commission continues to analyse compliance with this judgment. although there is implementing legislation, we have not yet seen the actual reinstatement of these judges to their previous posts. the commission regularly insists that hungary apply the judgment of the court swiftly and in full. the second case concerns the violation of the independence of the data protection authority and the termination of the mandate of the former commissioner for data protection. this case is still pending before the court of justice. last month the commission reiterated its concerns to hungary, stressing that the independence of a data protection supervisory authority is a key requirement of eu law. the commission regrets that, in spite of the case pending before the court, hungary has now gone even further by incorporating the premature termination at constitutional level through the fourth amendment. so much for eu law. now i will address the rule of law. hungary will also need to take due account of the opinion that the council of europe and the venice commission will deliver in june, in full accordance with the principles, rules and values of both the european union and the council of europe. the commission expects a responsible answer from hungary on this important opinion, which will be published in june this year. president barroso has also highlighted to prime minister orbán the work of this parliament in preparing the resolution – which will also be adopted in june – on the situation with regard to fundamental rights in hungary, which is based on the work of your colleague rui tavares. the commission expects the hungarian authorities to engage in political dialogue with this house in order to address any conclusions that the resolution may set out. i would like to assure you on behalf of the commission that we will continue to call for the legislation to be brought into line with eu law and for the rule of law to be respected. the commission has urged, and continues to urge, the hungarian authorities to act in a responsible manner and in the best interest of hungary and of the eu as a whole. i would like to acknowledge that we received an immediate response to president barroso’s letter. we will now need to analyse the draft changes and verify their compatibility with eu law.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i do not need to go into all the details which have just been given to us by mrs reding, who, on behalf of the commission, has defined the framework and scope of this debate. the commission is doing its job and the group of the european people's party is of the opinion that the commission must do that job and the hungarian authorities, at the end of this evaluation process, on what is being done and what is not being done, will be urged to comply with what the european institutions, especially the one that is the guardian of the treaties, will consider useful and necessary to do. the most immediate reason for this debate - the fourth constitutional amendment in hungary - is, as so often happens, an element that can be understood in two different ways. there are, of course, the hungarian authorities who say, with good reason, that they are acting positively. and there are others who, for equally good reasons, say that it is not. it is a debate which is ultimately legally sterile. the big problem, of course - and the commissioner has also understood this - is the question of what to do with a two-thirds majority with which you can do everything and, above all, what to do with it if you are alone. there is already a difference of opinion on this point too. there was a time when even the venice commission applauded hungary for having a constitutional and legal structure which requires a two-thirds majority in many areas, claiming that this ensures the stability of the whole, whereas now it is precisely the volume and density of everything that must be regulated by a two-thirds majority that seems to be a problem. so we are seeing an evolution of designs. the two-thirds majority system has always existed in hungary. it's always been required. in the early 1990s, there was a consensus among all parties except fidez that the system of the constitution and the cardinal laws had to be maintained in order to ensure stability. and fidez, during the first government that it was able to lead, was in a situation where it had to accept this two-thirds majority, held by others. later, he was fortunate enough to be elected in the proportions we know. now he is reforming the state according to his own political, cultural and other options. in the end, i believe that there is constitutional autonomy in many areas and legal autonomy in many more, provided that this does not interfere with the acquis communautaire. there are a lot of measures that have been taken by the hungarians that cannot reasonably be called into question simply because they come from a party that has a two-thirds majority, which was won in a perfectly legitimate election. personally, i would not have drafted a number of constitutional provisions in the way that they have been drafted, but that does not take away from the legitimacy of the wording that has been adopted. i also remember a hungarian presidency of the european union during which the hungarians left a good memory and a good impression on all of us. they are no worse europeans than we are. i have the impression that our insistence on hungary is now leading hungarians, whether they are fides voters or not, to believe that europe is not really on their side. the hungarians will have this impression, just as the greeks already have it for other reasons, just as the cypriots already have it for another reason, just as the italians for another reason, just as the portuguese for another reason... i think that in the end europe is losing a lot of people, for different reasons, who no longer feel represented by what we are doing. i conclude with the following statement. as i said at the beginning of my speech, legally we can have different views on a number of things. the commission's position is the final one, there is no doubt about that. but there must be a confrontation of ideas. in so far as, too often, particular interests clash and clash, we risk, in the end, losing the support of too many europeans for a process which will then no longer be common, and with european values which will no longer have any more than an academic value. it is a risk and i ask you all to bear this in mind also in relation to hungary. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. renewable energy is a success story. i will give just two or three examples. a modern wind turbine has as much steel as 500 cars, and the expansion of wind turbines in europe is currently the only growth market for the european steel industry. the second thing that's been very successful is cost reductions. we have been in a situation for the last year and a half, and this is historical, where large photovoltaic systems are cheaper per kilowatt hour than a new nuclear power plant. i have three questions to put to the commissioner. firstly, why does the commission now want to allow subsidies for nuclear power stations over 40 years, higher than 10 euro cents per kilowatt hour and at the same time take such a critical view of the subsidies for renewable energies? aren't you completely at odds with that? secondly, you yourself say, commissioner, that energy efficiency, renewable energy and the development of networks are the 'no-return' options for europe's climate and energy. why have you been denying for months that a scenario is being considered: high efficiency, high renewables, high interconnectivity? they prevent this scenario from being calculated, and thus undermine the basis of our discussions on objectives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – spain was a success story until the new government came in, and the new government is now basically protecting the coal and nuclear industries by completely taking away all support, even retroactively, for renewables. i am absolutely astonished that, despite the fact that spain is no longer on track to fulfil its 2020 target, the commission is apparently doing nothing. what is happening in spain is protection of vested interests; it is going against competition in the spanish energy market, because renewables bring more competition to the market. i am very surprised that the commission is not acting either on the competition issue or on the renewable issue. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – spain has, as a result of the economic crisis, an electricity demand which is going down, and because there are no power lines over the pyrenees, it is not able to export its excess electricity to, for example, france. therefore, it had the choice: it could have shut down all coal power plants and the very old and risky nuclear power plants, but instead of doing that, the government is protecting old coal and old nuclear plants. it even intends to prolong the life of nuclear plants and it has, through the latest royal decree in february, killed what was a success story in terms of renewable deployment. this was the premium model, advocated by the commission in all its publications. basically it is a political choice against modern energy and protecting the old interests; that is what is going on in spain.
blue-card question. – ms carvalho, you are right to put the question concerning bringing down costs. could you tell us something about where we stand in the eu research programme on helping renewables and how the eu budget, and especially eu research, could help bring down the cost for renewables?
the question is "blue cardboard". mrs grossetête, the conclusion of the text of the council of heads of state, which will meet on wednesday, concerns energy. the question of europe's energy dependence is not mentioned at all in this text. the fact that europe buys 400 billion euros of gas from mr putin or oil from mr i don't know who is not mentioned. do you not personally think that in this text setting out the energy priorities for the coming years, the debt and geopolitical dependence of europe should be highlighted and more emphasis should be placed on indigenous energy sources, particularly renewable energy sources?
i would like to say, madam president, that the austrians are much more intelligent and will not listen to what mr martin is saying. this said, i would like to tell you that i will not be returning to the architecture of european banking supervision, since we already had a debate on it last september and i had taken the floor to salute the fundamental principle of entrusting the european central bank with a new mission essential to ensuring financial stability. after months of negotiations between our rapporteurs and the council, we are called upon to endorse an agreement which i have a little difficulty in grasping in all its details, but i must admit. it would have been preferable to have analysed the text in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, even if i have complete confidence in marianne thyssen's negotiating skills. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i understand the method of postponing the final vote until the two parties are in agreement. it seems to me as legitimate to hold the new supervisor to account for the general principles guiding his action as it seems to me to be dangerous to claim a right of excessive regard for the european parliament in the day-to-day management of business. i also remind mr lamberts that the national supervisors do not have the habit of justifying themselves daily before their parliament, and i do not imagine that the european central bank will explain itself at any moment on the concrete, ongoing case of the systemically important banks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. respect for the separation of powers. a second point: i would like to emphasize that the banking union has several pillars and that it is not enough to be content with a single supervisory body, however important it may be. the european banking resolution fund and the deposit guarantee are equally essential pillars. i hope that the european commission will submit a proposal on this subject shortly. i know that discussions with some member states may be difficult, but we are used to it. it is not the case that we are part of the process of building a genuine banking union and that we cannot stop halfway or in the middle of the process. everyone, here and elsewhere, must be aware.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i consider crossborder tax evasion to be an alarming phenomenon which must be tackled with concrete and effective measures following a constructive discussion between european leaders. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power of lighting units and of electrical equipment is a very good one.
in writing. i abstained in the final vote on the kekus report. i can agree with his recommendations when he talks about the importance of tax evasion and the need to fight it with increased means. like the luxembourg government, which has just accepted the principle of automatic exchange of information between tax authorities, i see that this is becoming the international standard. it is therefore logical that it should be required of all. i do not, however, share the view of my colleagues who want the union to be a kind of forerunner, introducing, as elsewhere, standards that are much stricter than those of competitors from third countries. it is essential to ensure a level playing field for all, the anglo-saxon level playing field, between financial centres operating in a highly competitive world. failure to do so would have very damaging consequences for the european economy. bank secrecy does not necessarily preclude the proper payment of taxes. the system of withholding tax guarantees both the protection of the private sphere and the collection of taxes payable to the states. on the other hand, the automatic exchange of information creates such bureaucracy that much data is lost or misused, so that taxpayers escape taxation altogether!
madam president, the european union is the largest export market for textile products for bangladesh. hundreds of people have paid with their lives for the appalling working conditions they are subjected to, and thousands suffer the effects of recent disasters. the initiatives to hold importers of manufactured goods in bangladesh accountable are certainly very commendable. they can put an end to the indifference which was the rule in the past in the face of the tragedies to which workers in developing countries, and women in particular, are exposed. in addition, changing consumption patterns may also help to alleviate the situation somewhat. it should be borne in mind, however, that all these measures and initiatives are not enough. the problem is that we live in a trading system that tolerates 19th century exploitative practices to conquer 21st century markets. commissioner de gucht has just stressed the responsibility of the international labour organisation. that's good! he stressed the role of the oecd, but did not overlook the social responsibility of european enterprises. that's good! when he says that the issue is not commercial, i would ask him to clarify his thinking by answering the following question: if all the measures he has mentioned are not going to produce the desired results, does the commission not think that the world trade organisation should, in turn, take retaliatory measures which could bring down the companies and countries directly responsible for this modern slavery, which many of us are denouncing here for the second time this year?
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. we agree on the tragic events and we are also concerned. my colleague karel de gucht, who at the beginning did a thorough analysis and also indicated what measures he and the commission would take, was unfortunately forced to go to the airport. he must return to brussels. he asked me to represent him. his cabinet is present. i'll report to him. but it can be said that your proposals - both your analysis and what you are asking for - are in our favour. i do not see any contradiction between your expectations, your proposals on how to act, and what the commission and commissioner de gucht also intend to do, especially after the opening statement by mr de gucht. working contacts with the government in bangladesh, with the ministers, with the authorities are in full swing. i believe that cooperation with local governments is the first important measure, secondly cooperation with industry and large commercial companies, whose obligations are particularly important for subcontractors, and thirdly the strengthening of employee representation. and it is indeed a matter of establishing minimum standards for occupational safety, for working conditions in general, for fire safety and other building safety measures and for social standards to be observed worldwide. we will continue to work with the ilo here, and you can be sure that the commission is concerned about the respect of human dignity rules at all sites around the world, no matter where they work, especially when it comes to products coming to europe. the concern that unites us will be translated into action, and mr de gucht will be happy to discuss with you the next steps and the improvements we have made in the buildings and working conditions on the spot. thank you for your constructive contributions that help our work!
mr president, i wanted to ask commissioner oettinger if he had heard what i had to say. i will admit that everyone is ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
in writing. i did not vote for the report on social housing in the european union not because i do not value all the efforts to build social housing. as mayor of my home town i carried out many social housing projects, again with ecsc aid in 1970 - i also gave the name cité europe to the single-family houses for miners and metalworkers benefiting from ecsc aid - but i only promoted the construction of social housing which people became owners of. i have, in a town of less than 6,000 people when i became mayor, made some 600 new owners mostly of single-family houses, but also of apartments. and i'm proud that you don't see a difference in quality, whether it's public housing or not. i did not vote for this report because i believe that the principle of subsidiarity must be respected, especially in this area. to make a policy on social housing, municipalities, regions and countries do not need recommendations and especially not brussels rules which would make the realisation of social housing more difficult or impossible, which would be the case if we followed all the proposals and demands that i did not vote for.
in writing. − in line with the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy, our institution is called upon to implement policies that facilitate access to the labour market and that give workers the appropriate tools to move around with the necessary experience. in this respect, improving education and training systems, adapting them to the new needs of the labour market, enhancing lifelong learning and improving systems for the recognition of professional qualifications are some of the strategies that need to be implemented as soon as possible to make eu men and women increasingly competitive in a global and competitive labour market environment.
in writing. i voted for the ronzulli report on the educational and professional mobility of women in the european union, even though some of the views and demands seem to me to be too far-reaching or off-topic. i fully agree that educational and occupational mobility, especially of young people, must be supported, particularly in the current context of the economic crisis and high unemployment rates, which in some countries exceed 40%. vocational mobility can also contribute to achieving one of the europe 2020 targets, namely to raise the employment rate of women and men aged 20 to 64 to 75%. however, i voted against paragraph 23 which mentions the commission's proposal to introduce a 40% quota of women among non-executive members of the boards of publicly listed companies. i do not understand what board quotas can do for the educational and professional mobility of the female community. article 34 deals with the spouses and family members of workers. i have some concerns about the part which 'reaffirms the need to guarantee the right to family reunification'. how far does this family grouping go, given that many immigrants have very large families and that a country like luxembourg will have problems in accommodating a family of a dozen or more people for each worker.
mr president, in 1985 i was the one who called for the signing of the first schengen agreement, which led to the abolition of internal border controls, which is so much appreciated by europeans and by schengen visa holders. for reasons of low domestic policy, some states want safeguard clauses, arguing against illegal immigration. while the fight against human trafficking at europe's external borders should be strengthened, we must not give in to the logic of fear, which was born of the franco-italian dispute over tunisian refugees in 2011. the treaty is clear. article 77 provides that the union shall develop a policy to ensure the absence of any controls on persons, whatever their nationality, when crossing internal borders. articles 78 and 79 lay down the conditions for this. article 78 (3) requires that, in the event of an emergency situation characterised by a sudden influx of third-country nationals, the council, on a proposal from the commission, may adopt provisional measures. this is more than enough to deal with exceptional situations. through the agreement we are discussing, some states are seeking to impose a renationalisation of schengen by remaining outside the ordinary legislative procedure. the agreement reached in the trilogue does have some appreciable safeguards. some say that these provisions would in fact allow the commission to block any populist drift against migrants, but the fact that the european parliament is not informed reveals the ulterior motives of some interior ministers. i remain hostile to this charade. 1.5 billion of our citizens cross the internal borders of the schengen area every year. who can control them? who wants to stop the tens of millions of tourists who will visit, say, france or italy this summer? who wants to control the million border workers who work in a neighbouring country every day? i'm not satisfied. i say we must say no to the logic of fear which drives some of our governments.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr batten, you have just told us that european policy on border control is a great disaster. we know that britain is not part of the schengen area. could you explain to me, mr batten, why there are so many illegal immigrants in britain and why your country, which is not part of this damned schengen, has so many problems with immigration?
mr president, i think we are faced with a very interesting contradiction. the interest and enthusiasm for schengen is enormous, both inside and outside the union, and at the same time we are witnessing a constant questioning of its essence, which is simply the absence of internal borders within the european union and the wider area. the reason lies in a major imperfection of the european construction which is easy to formulate. we have not internalized, especially at the level of the council and the member states, the fact that we are no longer just one area and that we should no longer be just one area. that is why we do not provide sufficient support to all those who guard our external borders. let us take a stroll to greece or malta to see the reality of these words. this is also why the member states prefer to lock up their own territory rather than protect and manage the area of free movement which should be the area of the whole union. if parliament was right to oppose what was proposed, what we got was far from what we wanted. mr goebbels and others have made this point eloquently. we're a long way from that. because we still believe that our police are the best, that our security forces are the best and that the neighbour is not capable of providing the same level of security that another member state would be entitled to demand. let's stop this. let us now move on to a european awareness of the management of this area. without this, schengen will remain what it is today, a battleground between states that remain national and a european parliament that wants a continental area. (applause) i would like to thank
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, in line with article 21 of the treaty concerning the accession of croatia, the council has consulted the european parliament and the vote that you have just carried out expresses parliament’s positive opinion with regard to the council’s intention to appoint mr mimica. the commission welcomes the result and it now falls to the council, in common accord with the president of the commission, to take the final steps. we would like to thank the european parliament for making sure that the consultation procedure was carried out with diligence and very effectively. this should enable the commission to be fully constituted upon croatia’s accession at the beginning of july.
mr president, i should like to explain briefly why i tabled this amendment with other members and to inform the members of its scope, so as to avoid voting on an illegal timetable. this amendment is legal and not political. it is not a question of voting for or against the advisability of additional sessions in brussels, but simply of complying with the treaties and the court's judgments, in particular the december 2012 judgment. if you look at the draft calendar before you, you will see that it contains eleven plenary sessions in strasbourg. the treaties set this at 12, but in practice, in an election year, we can have 11 sessions. this is permitted by the court in the form of an express derogation. so there is no difficulty at that level. on the other hand, and this is where the problem lies, the court's judgment of december 2012 recalls, in paragraph 57, that additional sessions can only be organised if the twelve plenary sessions have taken place. this is logical, since additional sessions are added only if they are necessary, so parliament cannot at the same time say that twelve sessions are too many for an election year and decree additional sessions in brussels. this is not right. we have therefore a choice: either we hold eleven plenary sessions, and therefore no further sessions are needed, or we hold twelve plenary sessions and then we can schedule three additional sessions. so it's either eleven plenary and no additive or twelve plenary and three additive. so, in order to make it easier for our colleagues to understand, we have proposed the first solution. we could have offered the second one. if this amendment is not voted on, mr president, the 2014 timetable could be challenged again before the court. and to avoid such a mishap, i would like to explain the scope of the amendment and ask you to vote on it, because i believe that it is a necessary clarification.
in writing. i was unable to give my consent to the schengen package. even if the commission sees its powers somewhat enhanced in the face of unilateral decisions by a member state, the european parliament, although it is a co-legislator under the lisbon treaty on border control, asylum, etc., remains confined to an observer role that receives only 'information'. the fact that some member states continue to refuse the european parliament the ordinary legislative procedure in these matters shows that the desire to renationalize schengen is very strong. my "no" is a protest against the interior ministers who play on the "fears" of their fellow citizens.
in writing. i was unable to give my consent to the schengen package. even if the commission sees its powers somewhat enhanced in the face of unilateral decisions by a member state, the european parliament, although it is a co-legislator under the lisbon treaty on border control, asylum, etc., remains confined to an observer role that receives only 'information'. the fact that some member states continue to refuse the european parliament the ordinary legislative procedure in these matters shows that the desire to renationalize schengen is very strong. my "no" is a protest against the interior ministers who play on the "fears" of their fellow citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the period of economic, financial and social instability we are experiencing, both in europe and in the rest of the world, is revealing threats to the world of information. journalism has become a dangerous profession. unfortunately, some journalists have paid with their lives for their willingness to inform us. in the immediate vicinity of the european union, there are many examples of this unacceptable phenomenon. this is the case of the journalist who is constantly threatened by the invisible hand, especially from one or the other government. within the european union, however, the threats have become more subtle. in at least two countries, the threat to press freedom is not so much the letter of the law as the latitude that the law may give to interpretation. it is the grey area that begins to blur the essential benchmarks for the press to carry out its duty of information. the european parliament, by pointing the finger at the unacceptable behaviour of certain non-european countries, is in a way giving a voice to those who are threatened. we would be even more credible if we also cleaned up inside the union. the difficult debates we have had here in this parliament on silvio berlusconi's italy and viktor orbán's hungary show us that we still have a long way to go before we can be truly credible. the european union should be able to remove any ambiguity in the application of fundamental rights, including freedom of the press.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the long process of normalisation in mali after the military coup remains a road full of obstacles. while some see a real prospect, much remains to be done. the kidal region in particular is still not secure. the tuaregs played a key role in this, and they were instrumental in the search for a favorable outcome. the second problem is the fragility of the whole sahel region, which has continued to be exposed to major shocks since the beginning of the arab spring. the relative calm of the moment should therefore in no way be interpreted as the end of violence in the region. there is every reason to believe that the heavily armed islamists, who are responsible for the deterioration of the situation in mali, are preparing for a redeployment that could pose a threat to the entire region. as for the more positive aspects, let us mention, first, the holding of the presidential elections on 28 july and 11 august. the european union is sending a delegation of election observers, headed by our distinguished colleague, mr louis michel, whose reputation as an expert on african realities is well established. secondly, we also welcome the commitment of the international community. the un peacekeeping force, minusma, is one example. thirdly, and this is probably by far the most positive point: the encouraging outcome of the donor conference held in brussels last may, which was prepared to invest more than 3 billion euros in the reconstruction of the country. as to whether the elections should be held at the beginning of the process of rebuilding the malian state or at the end, i remain convinced that the holding of the presidential elections as announced, despite the doubts that may be expressed, is the right decision. why would you do that? the reason for this is that the elections are clearly part of the long process of democratization in mali, which began in the 1990s. secondly, state building before elections is not taking sufficient account of the fact that only universal suffrage can restore the legitimacy essential to the proper functioning of the institutions, thus making legitimacy the foundation on which citizens' trust in their institutions will ultimately rest. before concluding, however, let me draw the commissioner's attention to the refusal to grant an entry visa to mrs traoré, the former minister of culture, in europe. i have known mrs traoré for many years and cannot imagine for a moment what the reasons might be for her refusal.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i warmly welcome the kaczmarek report. it provides a very valuable and timely contribution to the ongoing international debate on the post-2015 framework. designing a global framework for a post-2015 development agenda presents us with a huge challenge. equally, however, it presents us with a huge opportunity. it is increasingly clear – and it is my personal conviction – that efforts to end poverty must go hand in hand with global and national action on sustainability. global problems like climate change threaten to destroy any gains made in fighting poverty, with the poorest countries hardest hit again. so a post-2015 framework must embody both poverty eradication and sustainable development. the commission’s communication ‘a decent life for all’, which was adopted in february 2013, proposes such a single integrated framework. it presents a vision for an eu position on the post-2015 framework that brings together the strands of poverty, sustainability, equity and security. the development council endorsed this vision in its conclusions on 28 may 2013. environment ministers will do likewise next week before the conclusions are formally adopted in the general affairs council on 25 june. i am happy to see important areas of convergence between this report, the commission communication and the council conclusions. firstly, the report and resolution state that the final result should be – and i quote – ‘one development agenda’, avoiding duplication of efforts and resources. we consider that the framework should have five key building blocks or elements: basic human development, drivers for inclusive and sustainable growth, sustainable natural resource management, good governance, and peace and security. i am pleased to see that these elements also form the backbone of the report. secondly, i fully share mr kaczmarek’s view that we must first strive to finish the unfinished business of the millennium development goals (mdgs). we must accelerate progress so that as many of them as possible, in as many countries as possible, are met by 2015. this must be our most immediate priority and the agenda for change is helping the eu contribute to this. thirdly, we must indeed go beyond the classic mdgs. they have raised awareness and increased action against poverty since their inception in 2000. but they do not fully address the root causes of poverty. there are important gaps to fill, particularly when it comes to equality, quality of life, human rights and good governance, peace and security, and inclusive and sustainable growth. fourthly, the post-2015 framework should be defined by, and should apply to, all players – local, national, regional and international public authorities, civil society and the private sector. the active role of parliament will be very important in this participatory process. i look forward to continuing our dialogue over the coming months as the post-2015 framework continues to be shaped. fifthly, financing will be important. like this house, i regularly repeat that the eu must maintain and meet its commitments to 0.7%, and i believe the european council meeting in june will again confirm this goal for 2015. however, given the decreasing share of overseas development aid in relation to overall financing for development, i share your views on the need to mobilise resources, in particular domestic resources and innovative financing mechanisms. we are currently trying to develop such mechanisms so that eu aid can be leveraged and have greater impact. we will also continue to emphasise policy coherence for development, to make sure that key policies such as trade, climate, health, education and agriculture contribute to achieving the development objectives of a post-2015 agenda. before concluding, just a few words about the un high level panel on post-2015: this was a first attempt to seek a truly global compromise because representatives of the panel came from different parts of the world both the north and the south, and from various parts of the south. so what, in a nutshell, could be achieved, at least in theory, in these negotiations between states? it is very clear that extreme poverty could be addressed in one generation: that is very clear and that should be the goal. however, it has also been very clearly stated, particularly by representatives of the poorest countries, that equality and equity are crucial and that sustainability should be addressed. so the framework cannot focus solely on issues around extreme poverty: that will not be sufficient to guarantee people a decent life. in this respect i was pleased to see that un secretary general ban ki-moon uses international conferences to promote this type of vision, as he did at the tokyo international conference on african development (ticad), involving japan and the african countries, where he made presentations and helped to distribute the report in a way which promoted this view. there will be a process. one of the key elements will be a special event on the mdgs in new york in september, and it is very important that we should move in the right direction and that there should be overall agreement on an ambitious framework. there are also open working groups, created under rio+20, so it is a complicated process, but i would call on this house to be very active and to preserve european unity because if europe is divided – and we are already 27 or 28 countries – then an international agreement cannot be achieved. only with strong european unity can we support agreement on a post-2015 development agenda. i believe this report is a good stepping stone in terms of preserving european unity, bringing the member states together, with parliament, on the same path with the same ambition to achieve what will be a very important agreement on a post-2015 development agenda.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, thank you for allowing me to speak in this general commotion. there are two possible readings of the millennium development goals. the first, more optimistic, focuses on halving extreme poverty. this is a result that we should welcome. the reduction in infant mortality, a long-sought goal that has finally been partially achieved, should also be welcomed. finally, we should also welcome the fact that young people have better access to education. the second reading is more realistic and more disillusioned. it's reading missed opportunities. it is the reading of the unassumed responsibilities and i would like to dwell a little on the latter. first of all, we should mention, as an example, all the developing countries themselves, which have not done all they could have done to improve the situation. it is not up to us to develop them, it is up to them to develop themselves and, to the extent that they need assistance, it is up to us to help them with our experience and expertise. there is a second group of countries which also needs to make a serious examination of conscience, and that is the group of middle-income countries. as regards these countries, it should be remembered that 70% of the poor live in middle-income countries and that, since these countries are able to generate considerable additional wealth, they should also consider how to invest this money in the fight against poverty. to the extent that they do not or are unable to do so, it is their responsibility to do so. that is why many of us supported the commission in its desire to differentiate between beneficiaries, and those who generate sufficient resources should do their due diligence. thirdly, the european union itself, which is far from reaching the 0.7% target. it is sometimes easier to have an audience with the holy father than to get a future country to come and explain to the development committee why it is not meeting the objective it signed up to in 2005 as part of the european consensus on development. a request to mr piebalgs: when you go to new york, do not be modest, because europe is still the best player in this field. you have everything to shine on the international stage. i would like to ask you to base your opinion on the results which, in my view, are insufficient, but which are still far better than those which others are capable of achieving.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, cotonou has become synonymous with regional cooperation, solidarity and economic and commercial cooperation, political dialogue and partnership, with regionalisation which is, however, the poor relation of this cooperation. in fact, i wish we could go further. and also with the promotion of certain actors who are not mentioned often enough, in particular the non-state actors such as civil society and the private sector. this agreement must be adapted and our colleague, michael cashman, has stressed this need. why would you do that? because globalisation affects all areas of our daily lives and the nature and content of our international relations. globalisation is both a source of wealth creation and a driver of inequality. so, to act properly, the cotonou agreement must respond to the need and the will to ensure that our relations with our partners become an engine of integration and not the other way around. this is why we support the inclusive approach and why we have incorporated respect for fundamental values into this agreement. i would like to pay tribute to the action so courageously led by our friend, michael cashman. in fact, to be politically correct, we should call him not "cashman" but "cashperson" just for the sake of argument. i think he did a good job of the debate. he has found a clever political outcome to his analysis and, in a bit of historical irony, i would just like to point out that the lack of respect for the fundamental values you stigmatize in your report is, in fact, a legacy of the colonial era. so today, we are actually in the process of eliminating one of the last vestiges of our colonial relations with the african continent. looking ahead: as the commissioner said, after 2020 we will have to find a way forward with the cotonou agreement. it was so original that we can't just abandon it. i would not want this to give rise to a muddy alternative. we must now say yes to the continuation of our special relationship with the acp countries.
in writing. i abstained on the new regulation on the european civil service. some reforms were necessary. but the reform also introduces a rebate on social gains and unnecessarily burdens the lower classes. many of our citizens think that european officials are privileged. this is no longer the case, except for the european civil service. the commission has to pay a solidarity levy of 7% in future, compared with 6% for the lower grades. but the salaries of the humble secretaries will be cut by 13 percent at the beginning of their careers and 40 percent at the end. the number of fixed-term jobs will increase. austerity is becoming the european trademark. for those who think that european civil servants do not pay taxes, it should be noted that the european tax is progressive up to a final 45%.
mr president, i hope that what mrs morvai has just told us was not an offer of a coalition to the fidesz colleagues. if there is one, i hope it will be promptly rejected, because this story of exalted hungarian patriotism now irritates me as much as fantasies about leftist, capitalist or other conspiracies against hungary. we are having a passionate debate between political groups here, that is normal. but let's get it back to the basics if we can. there are doubts, fears, fears, apprehensions. but the president of the commission said: 'in the end, we should just find ways of avoiding the emergence of apprehensions about a certain way of governing and certain modes of governance'. that is what we should try to find out together with our hungarian colleagues. that is what it is all about, that is what rui tavares basically also meant, but he did it in such a way that i believe there are many elements that my political family can no longer like, but that is what it is all about. in essence, it would be a matter of reviewing the way in which government is conducted when two thirds of the seats are available, the matters that one wants to constitutionalize in a country and those that one does not want to constitutionalize, the matters that are left to ordinary legislation so that a next government, lacking two thirds, can still govern effectively. these are the real questions that should be open to debate. they have been, but you don't help find the answers to those questions by falling into blatant partisanship.
mr president, this is the third time that we have discussed the financial transaction tax in the plenary, and i would have liked the european parliament to show the council the way by proposing more substantial improvements to an initiative which is facing new obstacles every day. i'm finding the opposite is true. for some, the financial transaction tax is a political and ideological project that must be imposed at all costs. others, more realistic, may never see the light of day, even if they refuse to say so publicly. i wonder why it has not been possible to deal with this tax issue, which is certainly a delicate one, with the same coolness as we do when dealing with financial regulations. in fact, we've made little progress. the text before us today is designed to penalise, in the first place, the collective savings instruments of pension funds and investment funds. why would you do that? why should we start with the laudable aim of curbing financial speculation, which is considered so harmful, and end up punishing financial instruments whose purpose is to collect long-term savings? why should we start from enhanced cooperation and then involve everyone, whether they want to or not? that is why i cannot agree with the result we are reaching and i will vote against a text which would have the opposite effect - particularly in the field of employment - to what is expected if, unfortunately, it were to be applied. i don't believe it, to tell you the truth. the 11 member states which have embarked on enhanced cooperation are experiencing the most difficult problems. many of my colleagues share my views, but they lack the political courage to say so openly. perhaps they will become more talkative after the german elections. (the speaker agrees to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer is "blue cardboard". mr lamberts, if you stayed in politics as long as you did but you certainly won't stay as long as i did with your ideologies ... i can tell you that, personally, i have changed a lot. but i'm not making anything worse. we said that with the financial transaction tax we wanted to put an end to speculation in the very short term. what we're doing now is punishing savings, long-term investment, because pension funds, investment funds are not going to take that. and you will see, of course, that in singapore they are already ready to welcome investment funds because they know that if we introduce such a tax on financial transactions, there will be a huge offshoring. but, you know, i can tell you one thing. you may be in favor, as are many others, but there are many who are in favor of this tax, knowing full well that it will never come into being. she's a hypocrite. personally, i am against it because it is bad and because it will also harm your country.
mr president, madam president, as you mentioned in your opening remarks, the keyword of your presidency is credibility: to preserve credibility where it is threatened, to restore it where we have lost it. your biography predestines you to meet this challenge. you mention budgetary policy, employment policy, the level of debt, and i am not going into that. i would like to invite you, madam president, to work with the same degree of commitment towards a more democratic and less intergovernmental european construction. the european parliament would be grateful if you could play a full part in this work: first, by successfully completing the negotiations on delegated acts, where the european parliament has the right to influence the definition of political priorities under a legislative act; secondly, by sharing with us your views on the future institutional constellation of the european union. as the elections approach, this light could be beneficial.
in writing. for the first time, and thanks to the lisbon treaty, the european parliament had the power to say 'no' to the dictates of the heads of state and government on the union's financial perspectives. the budgets for the next seven years, from 2014 to 2020, will be marked by the austerity desired by the merkel, cameron and co. the european budget will be 0.9% of european gdp, compared with 1.2% of the common gdp in the 1970s. it's true that at the time there were 15 states. now we're 28, but with less money than we were 15. parliament, after resisting for the first time, finally gave in to the demands of the big capitalists. parliament's negotiators succeeded in obtaining some flexibility in expenditure, but remaining below the council's 'red lines'. since the glass is not even half full, i refuse to drink to the health of the council.
in writing. i voted against the manipulation of the emission allowance market (ets). parliament had initially rejected the proposal. the committee on the environment has again tabled the same text with some cosmetic changes. but the main problem is that the ets is a disadvantage to the european economy. the bankers love it. they can sell hot air disguised as "options", "futures", "derivatives", "hedges", etc. the energy industry accepts this and passes the extra costs on to consumers. in six years, the average price of electricity in europe has risen by 21.8% for consumers and by 38% for industry. the ets will impose burdens on european industry which are not imposed on their foreign competitors. is it necessary to point out that europe has already lost 2.8 million industrial jobs? a tax on the carbon content of goods and services would enable the european economy to compete on equal terms with international competition.
madam president, i think it is indisputable that the greek government has made a big mistake. and if, indeed, the replacement of the public company ert had been done and prepared in the way it is now announced, there would have been no problem because one could have been effectively replaced by the other, which would have already been in place. i do remember, however, that a person who has just entered the government - the president of the greek socialist party - made his entry into the government conditional on the ert being replaced immediately by another entity or on the ert being revived. i note that he is deputy prime minister, deputy head of government, and that the ert has not been restored. so, if we're talking about hypocrisy, i wish we would extend it to all the political actors involved. but that's not my main problem. my main problem is that the troika regularly comes to athens and asks the greek authorities: 'have you fired enough people? have you privatized enough? if you haven't laid off enough and if you haven't privatized enough, we're going to cut your power". and it is under this constraint and this impossible pressure that bad policy decisions have been made for years. it is under this pressure, mr commissioner, mr vice-president of the commission - in which your institution has been participating for years without any success - that reason has succumbed to the way greece is governed. it's a shame. (applause) the speaker agrees to answer a question on the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, i am particularly pleased that mr boştinaru has finally got his blue card, because he had it in the air during the speeches of the four previous speakers and i am therefore very pleased to finally be able to oblige him. yes, i know, and it seems to me that it is true that during those sinister times, there have been comparable phenomena. this is what i was talking about yesterday in hungary when i said: 'there are impressions which can be harmful and dramatic'. this impression in greece would be equally harmful and dramatic, with one difference: in greece, i am sure, this impression is not wanted by those who generate it.
mr president, i welcome this debate because when i was not yet in this house, when mr hallstein was the first president of the european commission in the early 1960s, i had already asked the commission, on behalf of a european women's organisation, to work on the harmonization of national legislation on the rights and duties of spouses and marital arrangements, because since 1952 - since the ecsc - there has been much more free movement of crossborder workers in europe. mr hallstein replied to us more than 50 years ago that, on the basis of the treaty of rome, he had no competence to deal with the harmonization of legislation in these areas. then, in the early 1990s, when i was in this parliament, i took the initiative of asking the commission to propose a directive on the harmonization of divorce legislation. we have made a report, adopted almost unanimously. we have called for the division of pension rights in the event of divorce, the famous german versorgungsausgleich, which has been incorporated into this legislation, to avoid 'divorce tourism'. unfortunately, no action has been taken on this report from the european parliament. the rapporteur and the commissioner, however, referred to the figures: more than one in seven marriages is international. i would therefore like to stress my satisfaction with these regulations, which are steps in the right direction, and to remind the commission that we are insisting that further major steps be taken in this area. i am sure we can count on mrs reding's initiative in this matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm really disappointed, especially with what richard seeber said. it is wrong to say that waste products are not given special consideration in this directive. and if you're saying that the by-products of biofuel are not counted, then you've never looked into the ifpri study. and by the way, dear epp members, do you know who brought the iluc factors to the european parliament in 2008? anders wijkman from your blood group! and you have to look at the facts. since 2008, there has been very little investment in biofuels because the whole industry is focused on long-term investment security, and that's why we need to introduce iluc after 2020. otherwise there is no security of investment. i have one last question for mr oettinger. are you seriously in favour of the deutsche bahn running on electricity from coal-fired power stations? and if deutsche bahn now creates an incentive to use 'green' electricity, if the german government supports this and german and european railway customers then ride along, should they be punished? i think we should reward them, and that's why it's right that you also incentivise railways to use renewable electricity instead of coal power. what's wrong with that? (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. who am i disappointed in? the commission is partly responsible for not having used the last four years to talk more intensively with brazil, malaysia and indonesia. because i think we need to answer that, too. but you have to know that unless we introduce the iluc criteria, indonesia, brazil and malaysia will immediately go to the wto and say that what the europeans are doing is not transparent. that is, the introduction of iluc criteria gives us a lever to deal fairly internationally with brazil and malaysia. and if the better bio-balances have a transparent procedure for their biofuels, then we cannot do worse, otherwise we are breaking the rules of world trade. and by the way, iluc is already being used by green activists like california and the u.s. environmental protection agency, and the brazilian government is also in the process of introducing iluc factors. why can't the epp see that? (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not sure. of course, there is a certain relationship between first generation investment and second and third generation investment. and now a 5% ceiling is being proposed and if it is now going towards 6%, then that is too much for me but well, somewhere we have to find a compromise. what does that mean? the investment in the first generation has already been made, we need it and we do not want any new ones. that means they're going to put their money back in because these are relatively cheap production facilities. they'll put their money in. there are studies that show that in 2016, 2017 and 2018, all of the investments of the first generation will be recouped. and we need iluc, because otherwise some banker, some other investor is going to say, what's after 2020? and then the same thing will happen as now: there has been no investment in biofuels for three or four years. think about it from an investor's perspective. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to do it. you are right that in some member states, and this may well be your member state, investment in the first generation has been made later. however, on average in the eu, we use less first generation biofuels today than in 2008. and that shows that there was no new investment in the eu as a whole. there are now two second-generation plants in operation: one in italy, one in denmark. and i think - and we are trying to put pressure on the commission accordingly - that we now need money from the research budget, from regional aid and from the agricultural budget to help these second generation investments in romania, bulgaria, poland and hungary. but if we do not introduce the iluc factor, then we will only get a subsidy-sponsored second generation, and the market will not believe it. you have to consider that if you're against iluc.
blue-card question. – mr ayuso, you are saying that we are changing policies. in the text of the renewable energy directive, it was already foreseen in december 2008 that we would come up today with a position on iluc. so what you are saying is not true. we are not changing our position; we are making it clearer, also for investors. of course you are right when you say that we have to look at brazil, malaysia and indonesia. but my question to you is the following: how will you present this before the world trade organization if you do not have objective criteria – and the only objective criterion which you can have is the iluc factor? you will lose every case before the world trade organization against brazil, malaysia and indonesia if you refuse. so you are suggesting something which is not feasible.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not thank you very much to jerzy buzek, not only for the good cooperation, but also for being very brave. because in your report we say that the member states should finally implement the directives. and poland - your member state - is the country that has not implemented most of the energy directives. and that's why i think it's brave that you're also going against your government and pushing them to finally get serious about the single market. i have two or three questions for the commissioner. firstly, we demand in our report that we end the oil price clauses which artificially keep the gas price in europe high for gazprom's profits. why does the commission not make it clear that the oil price clause should no longer be applied in new contracts? and then you said the market should work for the consumer. i have two comments. first, the price of electricity in leipzig is at an all-time low. the german consumer is not aware of this historic low. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. all the price increases for green electricity would be offset by this. what do you think? and then you said something that made me happy. you're for home-generated electricity. we are calling for citizens' initiatives, for citizens' cooperatives in europe. but why are you and mr. almunia working on ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not we're all here for the mirco generation. and we are in favour of consumers becoming producers. what is the commission's plan? quite the opposite! in the aid law which, after the .. i'm not going to die. do you think that the european aid law for decentralised production should now be made more difficult than it has been in the past? that the models which are successful, such as the german eeg, are now virtually prevented, and thus also prevented from investing in decentralised energy by citizens?
in writing. the claim that biofuel production in europe is responsible for the deforestation of virgin forests is nonsensical. since 2004, brazil has doubled its production of biofuels, while deforestation of virgin forests has been reduced by 75% in the same period. the iluc/casi criterion on indirect use of agricultural land for scientifically sound assessment of environmental aspects of biofuel production in europe has serious methodological shortcomings, which have also been acknowledged by the european commission. the european parliament's agriculture and industry committees have rightly pointed out that the cultivation of rapeseed in europe even has a positive impact on the iluc/casi criteria. the rapeseed kernel is used as a feed product, reducing the use of soybeans by about two million tonnes. for all the reasons i have mentioned, i am convinced that we should not act impulsively, as we have done far too often, and wait for the scientific discussion on biofuel production to mature. that is why i voted for the reasonable proposals of the committees on agriculture and industry and against the far-fetched report of the committee on the environment.
in writing. i welcome the fact that today's vote marks a key step towards the european banking union. at the same time, i regret that the european parliament itself has been the cause of unnecessary delays when there is no shortage of obstacles, whether political or technical. it is pure demagogy to demand total transparency from the european central bank in the name of democracy. it is quite normal that a european institution with increased powers should be held to account. but to ask that all the minutes of the meetings be made available is sheer folly. can you imagine the effect of leaks of confidential information about this or that bank in the press? the bank concerned and the financial sector as a whole would be destabilised. moreover, national supervisory authorities do not have such an obligation towards their parliament. after long negotiations, a compromise was reached. but if it had not been for the exaggerated demands of some of my colleagues, parliament would have had to have agreed much sooner to the ambitious and necessary project of entrusting the supervision of the major european banks to the ecb.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - madam president, the tobacco directive is a perfect example of the dysfunction of parliament's legislative work. five committees are set up to give an opinion on the commission's proposals. in each committee, hundreds of amendments are discussed. and the five committees adopted 388 amendments, generally quite critical of certain proposals from the commission, which clearly wants to abuse delegated acts. the envi committee, the committee responsible, rejects virtually all the amendments of the five advisory committees and, as usual, the envi committee goes even further than the commission. critical members of parliament are accused of being paid by tobacco lobbyists. i have never smoked and i have never had any lobbyists, but i want to be right. i don't see how you can stop young people from smoking by trying to scare them with shock photos. look at the tattoos they cover themselves with. would it not be more intelligent to put information on smoking cessation on the packages to show them how they can quit? it is ridiculous, madam president, but 60 seconds to report on the work of my committee is not enough. the commissioner spoke for 12 minutes.
madam president, i did speak as rapporteur for the committee on industry. i would still like to comment on some of the things that have been said in this debate. you have the right not to give me the floor, that is your strictest right, but you have just invented a rule that does not exist, that is to say that once we have spoken, we can no longer use the "blue card".
in writing. i abstained in the final vote on the tobacco directive, having supported all the amendments which i thought might improve an otherwise disastrous text. the atmosphere in which we debate this matter is deleterious. the approach of the european commission, but also of many member states, is intolerably bigoted and hypocritical. while maintaining the legality of a product, its manufacture and sale, action is taken to make its market and consumption almost underground. the tobacco industry's action against e-cigarettes, which all cancer specialists agree is a useful and justified substitute for tobacco, is abhorrent. unfortunately, many of my colleagues practice a zeal in this regard that is reminiscent of the darkest days of the witch hunt. a negative vote would have been counterproductive given the stubbornness of the commission and the council: parliament's position must be able to be effectively opposed to them, and for that, we need strong majorities. i am, however, totally unable, given the fanaticism in the air, to vote in favour of a text which, under the pretext of serving public health, only marginalises and further alienates a minority of our society.
in writing. talleyrand already knew that everything that is exaggerated is insignificant. the excesses contained in this report on the basis of a commission proposal to combat smoking will be ineffective from the point of view of public health, because nothing will prevent a long-term smoker from smoking, nor a young person from defying the ban. on the other hand, exaggerations will have a devastating effect on employment in the tobacco industry and, more particularly, in the european sme sector, which produces niche products. penalising them will also lead to the import of much more harmful and often illegal products. that is why i have proposed amendments to achieve a better balance between the public health imperative and the safeguarding of an important economic sector, and to mitigate ineffective regulation. since we have not been able to secure a majority for this first reading, i did not vote for this text. i hope that the european parliament and the council will find a more balanced formula.
mr president, i would like to make three points. firstly, all those who say that the opening of the borders of the neighbouring countries has very direct implications for europe are absolutely right. greece and cyprus are also neighbouring countries, and we cannot stand by and watch the influx of people that these countries will have to manage, if at the same time we ask jordan, lebanon and other countries to take them in. that would be hypocritical, that would be false, and that is not worthy of us. secondly, i found some very interesting things that commissioner barnier said, starting with the relocation of a certain number of people and the countries that would be willing to take them. i have noted very few names of so-called great countries among those who are willing to welcome them. there seems to be a european greatness which no longer seems to lie so much in the size of the countries concerned. i am also grateful to the commissioner for speaking about non-refoulement because it seems to me that non-refoulement, which is also being challenged in this house by some, is a necessity of the moment. finally, the commissioner also mentioned the foreign fighters. i believe that this is the essence of many of the debates to come, because we know very well who is fomenting this conflict from within and without and who is prolonging it. we know very well that they are partners of europe. we know very well that it is countries like qatar whose role should be examined. do we want syria to blow up? and what would we do with the refugee flows that would result from such an outbreak? these are questions we will have to deal with politically.
in writing. i voted against the zanoni report, although fortunately the plenary made some improvements. in fact, the so-called impact studies are basically aimed at killing off any new economic activity and promoting individual selfishness (nimby - not in my backyard). if such studies had been required at the beginning of the industrial age, mankind would still be living in absolute poverty. if we are to protect the environment and biodiversity, we cannot do so through absolute "preservation". the environment and biodiversity are better off in economically developed countries than in poor countries, where people live in poverty and misery.
in writing. i voted in favour of the request to postpone the vote on the resolution in order to clarify the new commission proposals. unfortunately, the majority of parliament has preferred to remain in the artistic fog. for this reason i supported the resolution, even though it did not reach the required majority. i hope, however, that the commission will uphold the commitments it has made in plenary.
in writing. with the overwhelming majority of my political group, i did not vote for the resolution of the committee on transport to reject the easa agreement. this agreement is indeed an improvement on the current regulation, although not everyone is satisfied with the progress. i understand the position of the pilots' unions, but i also understand the realistic position of other unions who feel that it is better to accept progress which further enhances passenger safety by reducing pilot working time compared to the present situation. but it's never too late to do better. i am sure that after the small progress i have made so far, i will have to make more, because as a frequent flyer, i am very concerned about my safety.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a question. i just wanted to say that the people of italy know for themselves what to think of lies such as those formulated quite rightly (just a moment ago).
madam president, one of the characteristics and maybe also one of the problems of liberal democracy, such as we know it in europe, is that it allows the expression of opinion. it allows the expression of nearly every sort of opinion, up to the point where the bearers of certain opinions which are not particularly appetising might just start organising themselves in a manner which becomes intolerable to democracy. this is what we have seen most recently in greece; this is about considering violence as a legitimate means of political action; this is about considering a crisis as a welcome opportunity for revolutionary social behaviour which will result ultimately in death – as it has done. and it is not a phenomenon that applies uniquely to greece, because i happen to remember that just after the leadership of chrysi avgi were arrested, the leadership of the british national party and some weird esoterical club called the national revival of poland expressed their solidarity towards the leadership of chrysi avgi. so we seem to be witnessing across europe a trend which says: if nothing else helps, violence will. this is something that the democratic states and the democratic institutions of a united europe will have to counteract with all the means at their disposal. we only have the law; we only have the strength of the law. but we need the full strength of all the laws in order to counteract this phenomenon which will ultimately put the cohesion of our societies at existential risk.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, as i said in my opening remarks, the council will adhere strictly to the treaties, which provide for consultation of parliament. there are a couple of specific points that i wanted to make. the council adopted the decision on 9 july 2013 appointing mr mates as a member of the court of auditors, in line with its usual current practice in accordance with the treaties. it is also not required to set out reasons for its decision. secondly, the answers provided by the candidate in the questionnaire submitted by the european parliament committee prior to the hearing constitute a tool for the european parliament to deliver its opinion. however, the use of such answers to create a de facto right of veto for the european parliament is not in accordance with the treaties. when it comes to mr audy’s question, i have to say that this has never, ever been discussed in the council, and i cannot give you the council’s opinion on the possible changes. rest assured, however, that i will take your suggestions back to my ministerial colleagues. i realise that this may not be to parliament’s liking, but we operate within a strict legal framework which the council is determined to uphold.
member of the commission. − the free movement of citizens is one of the fundamental freedoms of the european union and is enshrined in the treaties. intra-eu mobility is crucial to the achievement of the single market; it can contribute to fighting unemployment, and it ultimately benefits the citizens of all member states. yet today, despite the fact that 20 % of eu citizens are interested in moving to another country, fewer than 3 % (14.1 million) live in another member state on a permanent basis. many obstacles still exist for people who decide to move to another member state to work or to look for employment. this is why, last april, the european commission presented a proposal for a directive with measures facilitating the exercise of the right of free movement of workers. these measures include, for instance, the provision by member states of information, assistance and advice to eu migrant workers and employers, as well as of appropriate means of redress at national level. as you know, at the end of this year the transitional measures relating to freedom of movement for romanian and bulgarian workers will come to an end, and they will be able to fully enjoy the same rights as other eu citizens. i know that concerns have been expressed – even by some members of this house – about the risk of an increased flow of people putting an excessive burden on the social security systems of some member states. however, previous experience with the 2004 enlargement has shown that people migrate mainly to take jobs and not benefits. regarding expectations, we should understand that the biggest wave of eu citizens from bulgaria and romania moving to other countries has already taken place. future flows are likely to be smaller and to continue to be driven mainly by employment opportunities. mobile workers from these two member states will fill job vacancies in the receiving countries. it is also likely that a significant proportion of existing undeclared work will simply be recognised. freedom of movement is also about ensuring that citizens do not lose their social security cover – such as pensions, health assistance, family benefits and unemployment benefits – when they move to another member state, including when they return to their home country. eu rules on the coordination of the social security systems of member states ensure that citizens moving to another country are covered by one – and only one – social security system and receive the same treatment as the nationals of the country providing the benefits. there have been declarations by some politicians and the media about alleged exploitation of member states’ social security systems by newly-arrived eu citizens. these declarations are often coupled with the allegation that these eu citizens move to another member state with the sole, or main, objective of gaining access to higher welfare benefits, rather than to find work, all this leading to the final allegation that they represent a substantial financial burden for host member states. even when asked, no member state has so far provided any data to the commission supporting the claim that mobile eu citizens represent a substantial financial burden for host countries’ social security systems. on the contrary, a recent study commissioned by the european commission confirms – once again – that the main motivation by far for eu citizens to move is to work, and that they are generally more likely to be employed. as a consequence, we can say with confidence that eu citizens do not represent a burden for the receiving member states. this is in line with recent findings from the oecd, which show how migrants in general (including third country nationals) tend to be net contributors to the budget of the host state – and eu citizens, in particular, are even more likely to be net contributors. some member states report challenging situations in specific towns or regions, where low employment prospects and other difficult situations – coupled with the arrival of flows from nationals from other eu member states – may put a strain on education or housing systems. the commission stands ready to help municipal authorities and others to use the european social fund to its full extent to address those issues. in this respect, the social assistance that is provided normally depends on more or less generous national or local systems. the commission also stands by the national authorities when they fight abuse and fraud: free movement entails rights and obligations. in this context, full use of the possibilities offered by eu law is essential. free movement and the freedom to work in another country within the eu is our joint responsibility. the commission is discussing concrete actions with the member states, including the development of guidance on eu rules, for example; a guide clarifying social security coordination rules; or a handbook to tackle abuses of free movement – for example, marriages of convenience. the commission is willing to promote other specific actions to help local authorities fully apply the rules on free movement, develop social inclusion and make effective use of available funding. in conclusion, please allow me to reassure you that the commission remains committed to upholding the right of free movement, so that eu citizens who would like to move and work in another eu country can do so without facing discrimination or obstacles.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, freedom of movement for workers is a founding principle of the single market. no one in this house would question that. i myself come from a country where 45% of the residents are non-luxembourgish, and the vast majority of them are citizens of the union. these people are here to work, not to enjoy anything. in addition, there are 150,000 frontier workers, which means that during the day the majority of luxembourg's population is foreign. without these people, our social security system would have collapsed, and so would our tax revenues. all the statistics show what the commissioner has just explained to us anyway. i know very few people who would move from one place to another for any reason other than to make a living. i know very few people who travel this way for profit or for profit. i know many people who do it because they are forced to and because other problems make them do it. another problem i would like to raise in this context is that the south of our continent is currently facing a situation of extreme economic difficulty which is driving people to flee, literally, to the north. one of the real problems we will have to deal with in this house very soon is brain drain, which could lead to these countries being in a situation where economic recovery is impossible in a few months or a few years.
mr president, it is not customary for me, as the last speaker in this debate, at least among those who have registered, to speak about the abstract need for 'more europe', but i would rather deplore the absence of any significant initiative planned by the european council on migration. the president of the commission returns from lampedusa shaken. the maltese prime minister rightly said that the mediterranean is becoming europe's graveyard, and the european council is saying 'we will return to migration issues in june 2014'. i have the impression that, metaphorically speaking, if he has nothing better to do than to return to this in june 2014, we will have to put a cross on the cemetery of europe which will continue to be the mediterranean. not only are we totally incapable of dealing with the migration issues that we are facing with acute urgency in lampedusa and elsewhere, but we also have little say in terms of neighbourhood policy and the migration balance of the countries around us. we are currently absent from the political conceptions of migration management in europe and around europe. it is not good for europe, it is not good for those around us, and it is not good for our economy either.
author. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this oral question is a bit of a hassle for me because, due to an oversight by the administration, we were unable to prepare the report entitled 'after the reform of the 2008 wine cmo and the cap reform, what is the future of the wine sector in europe?' in time. it is unacceptable that this much awaited report could not be produced because an official simply forgot to submit the application within the deadline. it was a question of establishing the position and proposals of the european parliament on the results of the highly controversial reform of 2008 and on the consequences to be drawn from it after what we were able to extract from the recent reform of the cap to maintain the diversity and potential of european viticulture, its traditions, but also its contribution to the beautiful landscape, the european tourism trade fund. you know the aims of the 2008 reform, which bore the ultra-liberal signature of agriculture commissioner fischer boel, with instruments such as the grubbing-up plan, the decision to abolish planting rights, the abolition of intervention mechanisms, and so on. as regards grubbing-up, between 2008 and 2011, 4,6% of the european vineyard area was grubbed up. the production potential was reduced by 10 million hectolitres compared to the 2008 production year. the cost of this removal of 161 200 hectares was eur 1 024 million. as for the liberalisation of planting rights planned for 2006, we were able to prevent it and it will not take place. the planting rights system will be replaced by a planting authorization system acceptable to winegrowers who want to plant because they can sell more, as well as to those who do not want to plant. without the european parliament, these measures which will save european quality wine production would never have been possible. there are some things you should know. sixty-three per cent of european wine production, equivalent to 103 million hectolitres, is produced under pdo and pgi. fifty-one million hectolitres (31%) are without a geographical indication. since 63% creates more value added, i believe that the naming systems in the regions should be maintained. as far as oenological practices are concerned, it is essential to avoid delegating additional powers to the european commission by means of delegated acts. the regulation of wine-making practices must be retained in the basic regulation and the war between north and south that was buried in 2008 must not be unearthed. the good news is that the 7.5% of the subsidies, amounting to eur 2.8 billion, which were used to promote european wines on non-community markets paid off, as the total quantity of exports increased from 17.9 million hectolitres to 22.8 million, i.e. by 22%, and the value of these exports even increased by 36%, i.e. 65% of these wines were exported in bottles. the proof is that we are competitive in the high-end sector for our exports to third countries. imports also increased by 5%, but their value fell from 2.7 to 2.4 billion. it is interesting to note that 64% of these imports were destined for the united kingdom and germany. we are therefore not competitive with low-quality wines from third countries. as early as 1999, the european parliament had called for the possibility of extending promotion to the internal market. today, that possibility exists. the proof that we were right to ask for it is that only 33% of community wines (49 million hectolitres) are traded between member states. we must therefore finally be able to activate intra-community markets instead of leaving these market shares to third countries. in conclusion, mr president, we want to extend the promotion measures, but it is not appropriate to undertake a new reform of the sector. let the winemakers work. forgive me, but leave them alone!
in writing. i abstained in the vote on the 2014 budget revenue in protest against the irresponsible policy of the council of ministers, which seems to be inspired by the american "tea party" to prevent the normal functioning of the european institutions. both the 2014 budget and the financial perspective up to 2020 represent a regression of european policies. the european union is in the process of renationalisation, while national states are becoming less and less important at the global level.
in writing. europe believes that the european parliament should 'lead by example' in reducing its greenhouse gas emissions. however, these account for less than 11% of total emissions. even if the european union reduced its emissions by 30% by 2020, this reduction would be absorbed by the additional emissions of others. 18 countries account for 75% of global emissions. of these 18 countries, only one still believes in the kyoto protocol, germany. of the 150 countries that signed the kyoto protocol, only the european union, norway, switzerland and liechtenstein remain. the americans, the chinese, the indians, the brazilians, the russians and so many others have never applied kyoto. japan, canada, new zealand, they all pulled out. australia, which just disbanded its high commission on climate change, is about to do so. and europeans indulge in the illusion of being "an example" for the rest of the world. i voted against it.
i have to say, madam president, i share the scepticism of my colleague michael cramer on the transport part, because there are some major projects which are likely to never come or very late, and therefore better projects are naturally put off. i shall vote in favour of the energy part tomorrow, because we as a parliament have made progress on two points which we as greens consider essential. the first point - and i thank mrs vălean and mr watson for that - is that more money will have to be spent on electricity than on gas. gas consumption in europe will decline because we are investing in energy efficiency in homes and in renewable energy. it would be a complete waste of money to invest in new gas networks now, because we will be using less gas in europe in 2030 than we do today anyway - and even the commission's projections say so. secondly, gas and especially electricity infrastructure is a good business. they don't usually need subsidies. what they need are long-term investors, like pension funds and others, to participate in this financing. that is why it is good that mrs vălean has stuck to her idea that most of the money from cef-energy has to be used as a guarantee through the european investment bank, because we can do so much more. what we need now are visionary projects. where is the irish/english project to bring offshore wind energy from the north sea to the industrial centres of europe? what happened to the project in galicia to bring electricity from portugal and spain to england? it's safer and cheaper than building nuclear power stations in england. and where is the cable to take solar power from greece across the adriatic to northern italy? these projects are unfortunately not included in the annex at the moment and i would like them to be dealt with now.
mr president, of course we have to express solidarity with the people of sardinia, but we should also be aware that this cyclone was an extreme climate event, as was the typhoon in the philippines. for the first time, we can see that global climate change is really happening, and i therefore hope that some members will reflect on the positions they have adopted on this issue.
in writing. i voted against the financial programming for the period 2014-2020 as it is clearly insufficient in the face of the needs identified by parliament, the commission and even the council. even if parliament has managed to negotiate some additional appropriations, which are insignificant in total, the european union is still condemned to the austerity measures decided by the heads of state and government. the fact is that europe is not giving itself the means of our common ambition, and that european solidarity will be expressed until 2020 by community budgets that remain well below one percentage point of the common gdp. i do not want to be associated with this lowest common denominator of solidarity, or rather the absence of european solidarity.
mr president, i shall not vote for this report because i question its legitimacy and legality. there is no legal basis in the lisbon treaty for prescribing how private companies listed on the stock exchange should choose their directors. however, since i want more women in all decision-making bodies in companies, i had put forward an alternative in the form of a directive setting minimum standards for positive action to ensure a balanced representation of women and men in companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected. this proposal was not well received by the 51 members of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on women's rights and gender equality combined, although some found it interesting. with a blocking minority in the council, a vote against this proposal would be appropriate to save more time and money. i know that before the elections many of my colleagues do not have the courage to express their opinions in private. i do not want to join the voice of the hypocrites. i want short-term positive action in all companies to ensure the advancement of millions of women. this is a real alternative to a directive which, if it were to be adopted, would only be of interest to a few thousand women in the eight countries of the european union who have parachuted onto the boards of publicly traded companies.
mr president, i was already a member of this house in 1965, but i am the only survivor of the unelected parliament. i've seen a lot of cap reforms. but this is a special one: it is the first to be approved under codecision. we can live with it because, thanks to parliament, we have limited the damage, but a lot of farmers will get less money but will have to face more obligations. when i hear some speakers here, mainly from the green group, i appreciate even more the compromise reached. i share the concern of all the members who have expressed their concern here about the commission's unfortunate tendency to abuse delegated acts in order to undermine political compromises. the delegated acts, commissioner, allow for non-significant adjustments: they do not therefore make it possible to change the substance of the compromises, for example as regards greening. i therefore agree with everything that my colleague mr deß has said on this subject, but also on the availability and prices of agricultural land, which must remain available in sufficient quantities and at affordable prices. i would like to say one last thing to those who think that the cap is too expensive. i said, "watch out!" it is not the cap that is costing so much, but rather its absence.
in writing. balance between men and women i did not agree with the commission's proposal to require that at least 40% of the board of directors of listed companies be women. i think it is a proposal which is essentially demagogic and which will not change the status of women and the real problems faced by millions of women in their working lives. in the future, we shall see more former ministers or commissioners like mrs reding filling the boards of directors or supervisors of the major financial, commercial and industrial institutions for their own personal satisfaction. but what will be the impact on the living and working conditions of the thousands of women working in these companies? will they earn more, will they be able to balance their family obligations with their working life? i doubt that.
in writing. i voted against the fox-häfner report on the seat of the european parliament, which, according to the treaty and the case law of the court of justice, remains in strasbourg. it is symptomatic that it is mainly british members who, while professing to want to leave the european union, want to change the seat of a parliament whose usefulness they do not recognise. even the 'green' arguments in favour of a seat for the european parliament in brussels are ridiculous. members of parliament must always travel, whether they go to strasbourg or brussels. that will still produce greenhouse gas emissions. let those members who feel they are producing too much co2 set a good example by refusing to take part in the hundreds of delegations that the european parliament and the political groups send every year across the five continents. the transfer of the seat of the european parliament from strasbourg to brussels would require an intergovernmental conference with the unanimous agreement of 28 states, ratification of this agreement by 28 national parliaments and at least a referendum in ireland. good luck with that.
in writing. in 2012, the european parliament decided to build a building for its purposes in luxembourg, in the kirchberg district. the cost of the new construction is eur 450 million. in 2013, the same european parliament, in adopting the ashley fox/gerald häfner report, voted in favour of a process to end the activities of the parliament in strasbourg and luxembourg and to concentrate all its activities in brussels. the impact of such a decision? to do away with strasbourg and luxembourg as places of work, to deprive these two capitals of europe of considerable economic benefits, to limit the workplace to brussels as the only place where, for security reasons, it has not been possible to hold plenary sessions in the chamber designed for this purpose for over a year. these few points alone have led me to vote against this report, which is a monument of incoherence.
in writing. i voted against the fox/häfner report. just because you are in a minority politically does not mean you are wrong legally. the recent ruling by the european court of justice had, however, put things back on track. under the guise of opening a debate which may be legitimate, the report is full of falsehoods aimed, in a unilateral and targeted way, at calling into question the seat of the european parliament in strasbourg. it is not for the european parliament to decide on its seat, since this is a matter for the constituent assembly at both european and national level. the heated debate on the seat of the european parliament can only be seen in the wider context of the seat of all the institutions of the european union. by overstepping parliament's rights and limiting the debate to one aspect of a highly complex and sensitive issue, the fox/häfner report does not lay the foundations for a calm and objective discussion. the european council is the only body with the right to alter the balance in this area. in these times of crisis, these games are deeply inappropriate: european citizens are entitled to expect something else from europe than fruitless debates.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, firstly i think that on the whole this is a good deal. investing in research and innovation and bringing research and innovation together is something we need to focus on more in europe. we should all congratulate each other – the commission, the members of this parliament and the council – on reaching this agreement. energy is, of course, a very important part of our future. with no solving of climate change and our dependency on oil, i think we will be in a bad way. i have two questions for the commissioner. firstly, do you think that we got the balance right overall? i will give you one figure: we still spend more than eur 10 billion (not in this programme but over recent years) on hoping to deliver – perhaps in 2080 – one electron or several from fusion in nuclear reactors. more than eur 10 billion. is that one of the biggest priorities for european competitiveness, or is the fact that we are losing out against chinese companies on pv supply and production a priority? we are now working with research institutes in europe and with companies to get the next mega-factory for pv production in europe, and we need your help. i hope that we will find eur 500 million to help european suppliers – who are still there somewhere on the market – win against the chinese in such an important area as solar technology. i have a second, much shorter, question. why have you, for some months now, stubbornly been attacking the intelligent energy europe programme? my latest information is that you will take most of the renewables out of the programme. changing energy – energy transition – is not only about technology, it is also about societal innovation. we have thousands of stakeholders all over europe who know the intelligent energy europe programme, so please explain to me why you are so against keeping to running it under that name. it is one of those decisions where people outside the eu would ask whether we were completely out of order, because, after 10 or 15 years, the stakeholders know the programme. now, for reasons which i cannot follow, you want to drop at least the renewable part of it. i really do not understand it, and i do not know whether my colleagues understand it either. one last word – the real hero on energy in horizon 2020 is mrs carvalho, and i would like to thank her for all the support.
blue-card question. – i am always reluctant to put a question to mr helmer, because i am afraid a lot of nonsense will come out again, but we have to stop this guy. mr helmer, you should feel ashamed for the victims of the recent events in sardinia. you should feel ashamed for the victims of recent events in the philippines. climate change is happening and what you are doing is cynical and irresponsible.
in writing. mrs estrela has a rare talent for drawing up reports which, even if they are adopted by a small majority in this parliament, do not lead to anything. this is the case with his report on the maternity protection directive, which was voted here in 2010, and which has not been taken up by any council presidency since, because this report mixes everything, overloads the boat and is unsuitable for serious discussion with the council and the commission. if she had listened to us, many women would already be entitled to a longer maternity leave of at least four weeks. this report on sexual and reproductive health and rights was drawn up in the same way and with the same majority. we warned the reporter. she wouldn't listen to reason. i voted in favour of the alternative resolution of my political group, which was fortunately adopted by a majority of members who still know how to distinguish between the competences of the union and those of the member states and who do not mix towels and towels. i hope that this second defeat will serve as a lesson to all those who have not understood that subsidiarity is a must in the areas covered by this report.
madam president, the new instrument for development cooperation, which sets the financial framework for the european union for the next seven years, will have to be more selective, more coherent, more targeted and more complementary. more selective, because emerging countries will have to take on greater responsibility for fighting poverty within their borders. more coherent, because the results of development efforts are unfortunately too often undermined or even called into question by actions or initiatives in other areas. more targeted, as the commission intends to focus in future on three areas of intervention in its respective partnerships. it is responsible for, among other things, regionalisation, governance and major infrastructures. it is more complementary, because we must not forget that the development cooperation instrument, despite its importance, represents only 10% of official development aid, the rest being divided between the european development fund and the contributions of the member states, which provide no less than 80% of the total official aid of the european union.
madam president, with the crisis, the debate on tax evasion has taken a moral, even moralising, turn. there are legitimate indignations; i do not think that any serious legislator should ignore principles in the name of an imperative which takes precedence over all others. if automatic exchange of information in the tax field becomes the international norm and rule, there is nothing more natural for the european union than to participate in it. but the method of refusing any serious debate is a source of skepticism. there are astonishing contradictions in the text which the european parliament is about to vote on. that is why we have tabled amendments. do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that automatic exchange, which is imposed between member states, is only practiced internally in half the member states? in other words, we are introducing a fundamental imbalance between what is done within the member states and what is done between member states within the union. ladies and gentlemen, our whole legislative activity - i would even say our raison d'être - is aimed at eliminating this kind of discrimination. i am surprised that it should suddenly become compulsory to report the balances of all accounts, when it is a question of exchanging income data. however, until proven otherwise, a balance in an account is not income. a final word on the notion of information available for exchange. unlike the rapporteur, i think it is necessary to maintain the current provision on funds. we're going to create an unmanageable system that will result in total confusion. for those who do not want to believe me, i will point out that the automatic exchange in the field of taxation of savings already has countless failures. but i know it's taboo to say. i say it all the same, "nobody is obliged to do the impossible".
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, minister, the next council will be an opportunity for our heads of state and government to begin important reflections and considerations in view of the decisions to be taken in the coming months to increase efforts in the direction of the revival of the european economy. the economic difficulties faced by member states in their efforts to consolidate public finances should not make us forget that the way out of the crisis is growth, not austerity, growth based on structural reforms and targeted investment. it is no longer the time for austerity and rigor, but it is the time for a decisive change of course towards a real economic and monetary policy capable of reviving the economy. i am referring, for example, to the need for a renewed role for the european central bank, backed up by the powers of the us federal reserve, the possibility of allowing member states to invest in the development of their own territory and to be able to deduct the resources invested from the calculation and the deficit/gdp ratio. in the field of defence policy, i believe that the time has come to abandon the personalist legacy and to pool the experience and technologies of each member state, equipping the union with coordinated action, spending less but spending more effectively and setting up a road map with clearly defined priorities and timetables for a coordinated and truly common defence cooperation. finally, as a sicilian and an italian, i would like to highlight the success of the initiative which gave rise to the task force for the mediterranean, following the tragic events in lampedusa, aimed at strengthening and coordinating national and european patrols along the routes of migratory flows. this initiative will no longer see immigration as an emergency for the first countries of entry, but as a structural phenomenon affecting the gateway to europe as a whole. what is happening in ukraine today should be a warning to all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, to put it very clearly, we are still light years away from a european army. my generation, at any rate, will no longer see the birth of an army of the european union. for this to happen, many obstacles of all kinds will have to be removed. these obstacles are of a unitary, economic and technological nature, and everyone agrees. the segmentation of military equipment production remains a source of confusion and unacceptable waste, especially in this period of budgetary lean cows. the result is duplication and increased costs of armaments production due to the inability to pool research and innovation resources. in short, we are depriving ourselves of the benefits of economies of scale in this area. the problem has been well known since the dawn of time. let us be realistic for the reasons just mentioned. we see the european army, a restructured european arms industry, favouring the pooling of our respective resources, at most pointing to the horizon. as for the horizon in question, de gaulle defined it in an original way, reminding us that the horizon is a line that recedes as we go forward. so we're going to have to settle for smaller goals. the acquisition by two or more member states of equipment listed in the capability catalogue, training programmes involving units from several member states are certainly important steps in the right direction towards improving the interoperability of our armed forces. but the problem is primarily political. it is pointless to point the finger at the lack of resources and capacity if, at the bottom, disagreements between member states appear as soon as the problem of intervention arises. in the case of mali, for example, the european union has managed to demonstrate that it does not even have the political will to commit the means it already has.
mr president, dear ana, it is not only the security of europe that is being undermined by this european council, it could very well be european law itself that is being undermined by this same european council. but let's start at the beginning. a word about the banking union. but let no one think that this banking union will, by itself, put an end to the crisis and the stupid policy of austerity with which we continue to plague, in particular, the south of our continent. so please let us finish this, but let us make sure that we can then proceed to the design of policies which might be worthwhile and which have to do with european solidarity. because, mr president, i see here, however, deviations from the european council which i am beginning to regard as scandalously problematic. i see a british prime minister publishing articles where, in a gross misrepresentation of the state of european law, he pretends that there is a european tourism of social security systems that is totally uncontrolled. but in the end, it is simply a question of the possibility for europeans to cross national borders to work and then benefit from a number of solidarity guarantees. it seems that the prime minister of the united kingdom is not alone in this view, because he claims to have friends who would like to join him in restricting freedom of movement within the european union. mr president, i find this regrettable, very regrettable, and i would like the european council, which is not already known to be the most efficient or the most european institution we have, to be at least capable of calling to order those of its members who, for purely populist and electoral reasons, no longer shy away from even questioning the most fundamental achievements of european construction.
