in writing. − coherent urban policies became a priority as the majority of eu citizens live in cities and urban areas, and all eu policies have to take this reality into consideration. the effectiveness of the most important eu policies relies on an efficient urban policy and its contribution to growth. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − i believe that providing member states and regional and local authorities with opportunities to use more than one european funding programme to support projects will improve the effectiveness of european funding, increase the levels of simplification and provide potential beneficiaries with easier access to funding. a more important role of regions and local authorities will in this way increase the effectiveness of cohesion policy. in favour.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund is the unions’ main instrument for implementing the principle of solidarity enshrined in the treaties, in cases of significant catastrophes. i was always in favour of this, supporting too any positive measure to minimise the bureaucracy for mobilisation of the fund. but i think that criteria need to be changed in order that small members states benefit from the fund.
in writing. − a law on administrative procedure would reinforce the legitimacy and transparency of the union, while providing greater legal certainty for citizens and legal persons in their relations with the union’s administration. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − restructuring is a european problem. therefore, we need european answers to it. today, national governments are unable to react properly to international restructuring. we need european legislation which ensures that restructurings are anticipated as well as managed fairly and in a balanced way when they occur. i voted in favour.
in writing. − tackling the challenges in the horn of africa, which impact european interests through the external effects of instability such as piracy, requires a sustainable and comprehensive engagement focused on the local population’s need for humanitarian relief and socio-economic development. but all efforts will fall short if they are not accompanied by the build-up of accountable, democratic governance with respect for human rights and the rule of law. we, europeans, by means of these instruments should control and direct that process. i am in favour.
in writing. − the protection and preservation of genetic diversity is a key component of the achievement of the millennium development goals. genetic resources (gr) are particularly essential for sustainable agriculture and food security. the current loss of genetic diversity that occurs as part of the biodiversity erosion process (known as biopiracy) represents a key challenge for humanity. such erosion of diversity sets new challenges for both holders and users of gr, the former being most often biodiversity-rich developing countries, the latter being usually developed countries. i am in favour.
in writing. − the recast of the dangerous preparations directive is being proposed in order to codify amending acts and to align provisions on the commission’s power to adopt delegated and implementing acts under the lisbon treaty. the directive regulates the classification, packaging and labelling of preparations (i.e. mixtures or solutions of two or more substances). it remains applicable until 1 june 2015 within the transitional provisions of the clp-regulation as the eu’s new system on the classification and labelling of hazardous substances and mixtures. in favour.
in writing. − this regulation is one of the first acts in the fisheries sector to be aligned to the new system of delegated and implementing acts. it is therefore of particular importance to find a legally well-founded solution safeguarding parliament’s rights created by the treaty of lisbon. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the cartagena protocol on biosafety to the convention on biological diversity mandated the elaboration of international rules and procedures on liability and redress for damage resulting from transboundary movements of living modified organisms. after long negotiations, the ‘nagoya-kuala lumpur supplementary protocol on liability and redress to the cartagena protocol on biosafety’ was successfully adopted in nagoya, japan in october 2010. this legally binding instrument, largely inspired by the eu environmental liability directive (eld), would allow national authorities to act on behalf of the collective good and ask operators for remedial measures in the event of damage to biodiversity from living modified organisms. both the european union and 24 members states have already signed the protocol.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament resolution on public finances in the european union countries in 2011 and 2012. this resolution sets out the main principles for the future budgetary structure of the member states of the european union. the resolution also points to existing problems that need to be addressed. member states' politicians must learn from their mistakes and avoid making them again in the future, so as not to jeopardise growth and prosperity. the latvian people need a stable economic situation in europe to continue the rapid growth of our economy. the amendments i tabled were supported by parliament and have been incorporated in the final text of the resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the main aspects of the report are as follows: it calls for growth-friendly consolidation; it focuses on negative spillovers; it balances fiscal adjustment which needs to be balanced with strengthening growth (europe 2020 strategy), economic development and social protection and calls for differentiated fiscal consolidation; it focuses on youth unemployment and an eu youth guarantee; it improves the revenue side of budget by fighting tax evasion and ensures pension systems are reformed with respect to social dialogue.
in writing. − credit rating agencies undoubtedly have a major impact on national and global economies. it is therefore understandable that their activities and assessments should be made more transparent, understandable and of higher quality to the public. this is very important for investors and for the stability of financial markets, as evidenced by recent history of people rushing to the banks to withdraw their savings because of rumors of bank instability. the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1060/2009 on credit rating agencies has been debated at length in parliament and i believe that the text voted by meps will introduce greater transparency and higher quality requirements for credit rating agencies, so i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. − this agreement is an important step forward to freeing member states from their dependence on credit rating agencies (cras). sovereign debt ratings would be submitted to specific rules to take into account the specificity of sovereign debt ratings. sovereign debt rating should be considered as specific rating with specific requirements. credit rating agencies could not continue to assess national economies without clear criteria and clear methodology. it provides the confidence that the objective assessment of cras will not provide the possibility to use ‘imprecise’ data for speculation. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this proposal is part of the package of the review of eu legislation on credit rating agencies. the directive aims to reduce overreliance on external credit ratings. this should be assessed within the overall agreement reached on regulation no 1060/2009 which strengthens the commission’s initial proposal with a view to eliminating all obligations to use external ratings within eu legislation by the end of 2020. by the end of 2015, the commission should submit a report to parliament and the council on the state of play in this screening process. moreover, financial institution (banks, insurance companies, investment fund managers, etc.) shall carry out their own credit risk assessment and shall not solely or mechanistically rely on credit ratings for assessing the creditworthiness of an entity. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this proposal is a lisbon treaty alignment of regulation no 1098/2007 establishing a multi-annual plan for cod stocks in the baltic sea. i agree with the technical purpose of this report and the upcoming multi-species plan to modify the content of the measure. it is necessary to continue working in that direction, since regulation of rules does not depend on the sales market but on renewal of resources. i am in favour.
in writing. − technical conservation measures are rules, which our fishermen throughout the european union must follow on a daily basis when undertaking a fishing expedition in order to ensure that however and wherever fishing activity is carried out it is done so in a sustainable manner. the measures relate to minimum landing sizes, minimum net mesh sizes, zones and closed seasons, limiting by-catch, the criteria to use more selective fishing gears and measures designed to protect the marine environment and thus have a considerable impact in achieving the objectives of the common fisheries policy. it is very important, therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − this draft report proposes an amendment to harmonise the rules of procedure with parliament’s practice and addresses the concerns raised: ‘where they are elected by acclamation, a secret ballot shall be held to determine the order of precedence’. despite the discussion not being over, i voted in favour.
in writing. − i am confident that the youth guarantee must be a priority in this time of economic and employment crisis. the guarantee should be extended to all those under 25 who have been unemployed for four months and to recent graduates under 30, and should constitute a good-quality offer of employment, education or paid apprenticeship. there must be an eu element to the youth guarantee, particularly in terms of funding, especially in member states with higher levels of unemployment. the social partners should be involved in the process of devising youth guarantee schemes.
in writing. − i think that we should contribute to achieving the europe 2020 targets, and the cohesion objectives, in a coherent and productive way with better coordination of the structural funds and other instruments. the particular interests of member states or regions should be considered, but in line with our strategies to face the huge present and future challenges. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − recent history has shown that european countries cannot get out of the crisis by spending more and more, which is why i am voting against this resolution. this european parliament resolution examines the possibilities and consequences of the introduction of euro bonds. euro bonds mean the creation of a common debt of the countries of the european union. such financial instruments would allow those euro-area countries that are accustomed to living in debt to borrow more cheaply than before. this means that countries that have been living frugally will be forced to lend to those that are spending and unable to manage their public finances properly, so they will actually be taking on financial obligations from other countries. the introduction of euro bonds, i.e. the common debt of the euro area countries, would mean that we would be tackling long-term problems with short-term methods, only by avoiding the inevitable need to reduce interest rates and develop a responsible public finance policy.
in writing. − i think that we must create tools to fight speculation against government debt. fiscal discipline and austerity measures need to be accompanied by more solidarity at eu level. we are calling for mutualisation of debt to be introduced progressively in order to strengthen our common currency. all attempts to use government debt for narrow national purposes are unacceptable. i voted in favour.
mr president, i would like to address mr de gucht: i hope you know of the barriers during the negotiation between mercosur and the us. have you prepared compromise decisions? i do not believe so, but unfortunately it seems no professionals participated in the work with mercosur from the commission side. we have this situation today. it is enough to remember anti-dumping duties against the usa which lead to dumping by argentina and indonesia. we need professionals at negotiations with chile. if we do not achieve real progress in deciding a trade agreement between the european union and mercosur, then change the team of negotiators.
in writing. − parliament welcomes the conclusion of the negotiations on the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and the republic of iraq. this establishes contractual relations between the two parties for the first time, welcomes the establishment by the partnership and cooperation agreement of a cooperation council, a cooperation committee and a parliamentary cooperation committee, and expects such fora to provide fresh impetus for the union’s political involvement in iraq at the highest level, in the form of regular political talks and the development of economic relations with the iraqi authorities at the most senior level. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this is a historic agreement between the eu and iraq. it comes at a key point in time to accompany iraq’s transition to democracy over the coming years as it meets the challenges of reconstruction and development, the restoration of its sovereignty and the normalisation of its relations with the international community. the eu should be fully engaged alongside the iraqi people and their authorities, who will be faced with many challenges, the security and stability of the country being the primary concern.
in writing. − this interim economic partnership agreement will allow the four countries of the eastern and southern africa region (madagascar, seychelles, mauritius and zimbabwe) to continue to benefit from 100 % duty-free and quota-free access to the eu market. this interim economic partnership agreement is very poignant in view of the fact that it is the first of its kind in africa.
in writing. − i agree that the signing of the iepa is a necessary step towards sustainable growth in the region and highlights the importance of continued negotiations with a view to a full agreement to encourage increased trade, investment and regional integration in the region. i voted in favour.
in writing. − parliament welcomes the commission’s communication on state aid modernisation and the commission’s new proposals for regulations. it calls on the commission, however, to ensure that stimulating economic growth, as one of the overall aims of this reform, will not once again lead to an increase in public debt.
in writing. − fires in textile and garment factories across southern asia have killed hundreds in recent months. there are some 4 500 factories in bangladesh, employing more than two million people, many of which operate with minimal safeguards against fire or industrial accidents. bangladesh is the world’s second largest exporter of ready-made clothes, next only to china. the country earns annually about gbp 12.5bn from exports of garment products, mainly to the us and europe. this council and commission statement was requested on the initiative of our group. its purpose is to ensure that the commission uses our strategic relations with bangladesh and other asian countries not only to demand decent work (respecting ilo conventions) in these countries, but also to demand that producers of common brands recognise that the eu expects the utmost respect for workers rights throughout the global supply chain. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the resolution deeply regrets the postponement of the conference which was scheduled to take place in helsinki in december 2012 and strongly urges all parties concerned to convene the conference as soon as possible. it calls on the high representative/vice-president catherine ashton to ensure that the european union remains actively engaged in supporting this process, particularly through its non-proliferation consortium and a series of seminars on the topic, such as those organised in previous years. the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of the middle east would greatly enhance international peace and stability. in her statement, hr/vp catherine ashton expressed her hopes that the conference will be convened as soon as possible, since its goal of promoting the establishment of a wmd-free zone in the middle east is an objective to which the eu, along with all the members of the euro-mediterranean partnership, subscribed in the barcelona declaration in 1995. i abstained.
in writing. − i am confident that it is necessary to start comparative research of current legislative rules on marking products with their origin in order to analyse basic principles and obtain an objective assessment of compatibility with wto rules. only then can conclusions in resolutions be adopted. i abstained.
in writing. − negotiations with mercosur were officially relaunched at the eu-mercosur summit in 2010, after several years of suspension. the objective is to negotiate a major comprehensive trade pillar within an association agreement. despite nine rounds and two years of negotiations no date has been set yet for the exchange of market access offers. i voted in favour. in this resolution parliament urges both parties, in this context, to bring sufficient political motivation and significant political backing to the table so as to proceed with the exchange of sufficiently ambitious market access offers on goods, services, investments and the other chapters of the trade pillar of the agreement. but the commissioner should design a clear plan of negotiations. i voted in favour.
in writing. – nowadays the pharmaceutical industry has become a business. the maximum amount of money is squeezed from ill people for low-price medicines. that business has turned into cynicism and impudence on the side of producers and retailers. mass advertising misleads people. but the results brought by medicines are sometimes tiny. it is necessary as soon as possible to organise control over price production (the price should not be higher than 20 % of net cost), to establish strict supervision of quality, efficiency and side effects. we altogether should say ‘no’ to the black cloud from the side of pharmaceutical companies and monopolists. those using the ignorance of eu citizens for their own benefit should be deprived of licences and producers’ rights.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation under examination constitutes a further adjustment to the arrangements introduced in 1993 and subsequently modified a number of times, most recently in 2006 (regulation no 1405/2006). under the subsidiarity principle, the commission adopted the proposal, seeking to encourage participation in decision-making for adoption and implementation of the arrangements. the greek authorities are accordingly responsible for drawing up the support programme and submitting it to the commission for approval. they are also able to propose changes thereto in line with the current requirements of the islands. i am in favour; however i think it would be good to have specific measures for latvia too.
in writing. − the socio-economic tissue of the outermost regions remains very fragile. the trade dynamic among outermost regions should be fostered with a view to meeting local consumption needs.
in writing. − the report was adopted in the committee on economic and monetary affairs with unanimity. this report is parliament’s reaction to the commission’s ‘action plan to improve access to finance for smes’. the report welcomes the action plan but calls on the commission not to focus too narrowly on venture capital, but to support alternative funding mechanisms too. it calls for an increase in eu instruments such as the cosme programme and horizon 2020 (by 20 %) to smes. our group also insisted that, in simplifying the regulatory and administrative environment for smes, adequate protection for employees had to be provided in the fields of social security and occupational health and safety. this is the result of a two-year struggle by the s&d group with the commission. i am completely in favour.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we mix two things in these debates: there is an end, and there are means to an end. the objective is economic growth, or as many people say, jobs and growth, jobs and development. the foundation of economic growth is balanced government spending, not living beyond one's means. anybody -- i'm sure everyone in this room -- understands what that means. what many people talk about and talk about is that austerity is just a means to lay the foundation for economic growth. if we had not been living beyond our means, we would not have had austerity policies, but to get to the next stage, to growth, we need to focus on creating a single market. the key to success is not to hide in past mistakes and errors by borrowing more money. growth is based on a balanced government spending, not living beyond our means and a focus on the single market. what is the single market? it is the genuine free movement of goods and services across national borders, which, as we know and the commissioner acknowledges, does not really exist in europe yet. not fully present. so if we want - and i believe we must - to do everything in our power to promote economic growth, dear friends on the socialist side, do not oppose austerity! that's the basis. fight for the single market! thank you for your attention.
in writing. − i support the report since it is a technical file to adjust the eu’s obligations under wto rules, following the accession of bulgaria and romania. the purpose is to agree with the wto members on a mutually satisfactory compensatory adjustment to offset the increase in bound duties and the resulting meaningful losses. the eu has so far concluded similar compensatory agreements with cuba, brazil, and – with parliament’s consent – australia, new zealand and argentina. i voted in favour.
in writing. − a new strategy for jobs and growth, europe 2020, based on enhanced coordination of economic policies, which will focus on the key areas where action is needed to boost europe’s potential for sustainable growth and competitiveness. i support it.
in writing. − the commission proposal is based on an accurate analysis of current conditions on the pharmaceutical markets as well as of the current context and constraints, notably financial, under which competent authorities have to decide on the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products. not rare case when pharmaceutical companies cheat customers through commercials. the control over production and sale of medicines should be increased to the maximum extent possible. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the current common fisheries policy (cfp) has failed to a large extent. that is why the main objective of our group is reform of the cfp. it should ensure the recovery of fish stocks and bring an end to overfishing, ensuring that fishing and aquaculture activities are sustainable and managed consistent with achieving a healthy marine and freshwater environment, in order to provide long-term sustainable environmental, economic and social benefits and contribute to the availability of food supplies. though the report has a few points with which i disagree, i voted in favour.
in writing. − traffic noise is one of the most widespread environmental problems in the eu, harming the health of more than one in three eu citizens. setting targets for industry to reduce vehicle noise is very important. i am in favour.
in writing. − the commission has proposed a decision to amend the co-financing rate, for those member states benefiting from eu financial support mechanisms, in respect of the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals. the purpose of the proposal is to ensure that those member states receiving financial assistance under the european financial stabilisation mechanism, the european financial stability facility, the balance of payments mechanism or from eu bilateral loans continue to implement the programmes established under those funds and continue to disburse funds to projects. it can prevent the flow of asylum seekers to the europe. the funding should be continued. i am in favour.
in writing. − the purpose of the proposal is to ensure that member states receiving financial assistance under the european financial stabilisation mechanism, the european financial stability facility, the balance of payments mechanism or from eu bilateral loans continue to implement the programmes established under the external borders funds and continue to disburse funds to projects. i am in favour.
in writing. − technical conservation measures are rules, which our fishermen throughout the european union must follow on a daily basis when undertaking a fishing expedition in order to ensure that how and where fishing activity is carried out, it is done so in a sustainable manner. the measures relate to minimum landing sizes, minimum net mesh sizes, zones and closed seasons, limiting by-catch, the criteria to use more selective fishing gears and measures designed to protect the marine environment and have thus a considerable impact in achieving the objectives of the common fisheries policy. i would add also river and lake environment. i am in favour.
in writing. − to contribute to the ending of violence against women and girls, and to gender balance, the committee on women’s rights and gender equality has decided to table an oral question with a resolution to demonstrate the eu’s support for the international process. i am in favour.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission's proposal is to combat vat fraud. i got it. but we must take action to prevent the possibility of crime itself. a global eu vat law is needed, which is the same for all eu countries. today, the laws themselves are so vague that they hinder business operations and open the way to corruption, since government officials can interpret the law as they see fit. for example, in latvia, vat is payable on an invoice basis rather than on a payment basis. this is an opportunity for fraud and a major obstacle to honest businessmen. the way in which the vat rate is calculated is of great importance. the practice of having this figure determined by one political group or another must be abandoned. it is necessary to establish a formula for calculating the rate of vat, since this tax cannot be the same in both germany and latvia. i urge you to do serious fundamental work because policing cannot solve the problem. thank you.
answer to the blue card question. thank you for your question, i totally agree with you, because the vat rate is a very complicated issue for all entrepreneurs in latvia, poland and germany. i'm with you on your initiative, thank you.
in writing. − ageing needs to be promoted as an opportunity for the future rather than a burden on society. this opportunity should not be limited to technical innovations and their potential for the internal market, and for eu industries and enterprises, since technical solutions should be user-friendly as well as end-user-oriented, particularly towards older people. it should also include a clear and unambiguous strategy with social objectives which promote and formally recognise the role of older people, and the value of their experience and of their contribution to society and the economy, free from stigmas and discrimination. i voted in favour.
in writing. − it is necessary to protect endangered species with strict trade controls. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in solidarity with the difficult economic and budgetary conditions in the member states, parliament and all the other institutions should continue to limit or freeze their administrative budgets without jeopardising legislative excellence or their legal obligations. at the s&d’s initiative, members’ allowances have been frozen at the 2011 level until the end of the current legislature. furthermore, it has to be noted that staff mission allowances have not been indexed since 2007. in addition, other structural reforms have already been agreed in parliament, some of which have applied since 2011 and are estimated to allow approximately eur 29 million in savings per year – despite the increase in competences, the additional costs of new members (lisbon treaty) and the preparation for croatia’s accession which have been absorbed. i voted against, because it is our job and we should receive a well-deserved payment.
in writing. − robust legislation on non-financial disclosure will enable investors and citizens alike to properly assess the true level of corporate social responsibility within companies and businesses operating in the eu. i am in favour.
in writing. − corporate social responsibility (csr) is indispensable if there is to be a restoration of trust in business and a sustainable economic recovery. business should consider initiatives aiming at preserving and creating jobs, especially for young people, women, and vulnerable people.
in writing. − this report proposes amendments (consultation procedure) to the commission’s proposal for a quick reaction mechanism that would enable member states to respond more swiftly and efficiently to vat fraud. i am in favour.
in writing. − the commission needs to change its position on the annual growth survey. there is no growth in europe today and 0.1 % forecast by the commission does certainly not qualify for the word ‘growth’. how long will the commission and the member states watch the devastating effects of the generalised austerity policies? the imf has recently downgraded its growth figures: this is a clear sign that we are running into the wall. i am in favour.
in writing. − the commission must face the facts and recalibrate its economic models. europe will not be able to achieve the europe 2020 targets if it does not overcome short-sighted austerity policies, which are self-defeating as recent employment and growth figures make clear. what europe needs are targeted investments and a growth-friendly fiscal consolidation, taking country specific situations better into account. parliaments must be better involved in order to overcome the lack of democratic accountability of the european semester. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour, because a properly functioning single market – economically, environmentally and socially balanced – constitutes a key pillar of the european semester given its huge potential for growth, employment and social cohesion.
in writing. − the agenda of the 22nd regular session includes panel discussions on human rights mainstreaming, on the negative impact of the financial and economic crisis and corruption on human rights, and on the commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the adoption of the vienna declaration and programme of action. there will also be interactive debates, such as on the rights of persons with disabilities, and extensive meetings on various issues, such as children’s right to the highest attainable standards of health. the resolution calls on the member states to contribute actively to these debates and to clearly state that human rights are universal, indivisible and interdependent. therefore i supported the resolution.
in writing. − parliament calls on the commission to foster and sponsor national court coordinators for european law and the emerging interconnection between national networks of court coordinators, while encouraging and promoting the ideas set out in the recitals of this resolution and in parliament’s resolutions of 17 june 2010 and 14 march 2012. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report focuses on what has been done and what should be done, on underlying results, issues that arose and, most important, future targets, in order for the european investment bank to help europe walk out of the current crisis, because what is at stake now is not only the european economy, but also peace in all the continent. i hope that declaring targets will coincide with reality. in favour.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. there are a number of members in this chamber who would be willing to do anything to disrupt european business, just so we can be green in our energy. i don't really agree with this approach; i think they're a little shortsighted. in developing our energy strategy for europe, it is important for us to balance three things. on the one hand, of course, we have to reduce co2 emissions. on the other hand, we need to reduce our growing dependence on imported sources, but it is equally important to keep prices reasonable for our citizens, consumers and businesses. we can do this by combining different ways. of course, on the one hand, renewable energy is very important today and will be even more important in the future. but europe should not exclude things like exploring whether shale gas could really be an alternative source of gas to the gas we import from russia or other countries. this should be investigated. we know that the united states has greatly reduced its dependence on imports by using this very source. of course, increasing energy efficiency, which i think is also a very important element. the less we spend, the less we have to produce or import. and of course, we should not rule out the possibility of continuing and even developing nuclear power in the future. in some countries this is being done, and it seems to be very successful. so if we were on a remote island and we didn't have to trade with the rest of the world, we might not have to look at our cost structure. but we're not isolated, we need to balance all these important things. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. in latvia, it has already become a black tradition to celebrate the founding day of the latvian volunteer legion waffen ss on march 16 every year. i have spoken to the european parliament on this subject three times. no reaction at all! maybe it's true that the volunteers of the waffen ss legion are heroes? i just don't think that. mr president, i have an idea. let's allow neo-nazis to march across europe on the anniversary of the third reich, because it's dishonest that such a high honor is only for latvia. i ask you, mr. president, to put it in writing that on march 16th, supporters of the waffen ss volunteer legion will march in riga, the capital of latvia. please write it down. thank you!
mr president, i would like to thank the council and the commissioner. mrs reding, i would like to refer to your statement that member states are obliged to penalise hate speech. unfortunately, in many member states the narrow interpretation given to incitement to hatred in criminal law contributes to hindering the application of this. i will give you one example from my member state, latvia: during one anti-fascist meeting, one neo-nazi stated that jews and roma are not human beings and should be exterminated. he was initially sentenced to imprisonment for a breach of the law, which prohibited a charge of incitement to hatred on national and racial grounds; however, the senate of the supreme court later found that the incriminated action constituted incitement, but on ethnic – not national and racial – grounds and acquitted the defendant. so i would like to stress that there are many violations in the member states, and i hope our colleagues will support the greens’ amendments.
in writing. − i supported the regulation establishing guidelines for european energy infrastructure and repealing decision no 1364/2006/ec, as i believe that it will give the baltic states a unique opportunity to end their isolation in the gas sector. this legislation is a joint achievement of the baltic mps, as it is the last step in the legislative process that has made ending the baltic's energy isolation one of the european union's top priorities. this in turn will provide union funds for the construction of the lng terminal. it is crucial that the baltic states agree on a joint project now, otherwise funding will quickly flow to other eu priorities in the development of energy infrastructure. the european union is providing the means to get rid of the monopoly, now the baltic states just need to know how to use the opportunity.
in writing. − if the new regulation is a positive and important initiative which aims at accelerating the accomplishment of the internal energy market, and at delivering on the eu’s energy policy and climate goals, then it can be efficient through the mobilisation of very significant investments, to the re-launch of economic growth and job creation in the eu.
in writing. − since the commission had received complaints that the environmental impact assessment had not been carried out, the commission started the infringement procedure. after examination, austria had used the same ministry as gave permission to conduct enlargement works at vienna airport. this is a conflict of interest and a violation of the eu directive. i voted for a review of the directive.
in writing. − all economic sectors should contribute to greenhouse gas emissions reduction. robust accounting rules for emissions and removals from land-use change and forestry activities are the first step towards achieving this goal. we cannot ignore our rules and i voted in favour.
in writing. − timely, transparent and comparable data on greenhouse gas emissions are necessary to know whether the eu and its member states are on track to meet their climate targets, and for developing robust new policies to combat climate change. this is not enough since there are large players – usa, russia and china. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament and council regulation on online dispute resolution in the european parliament plenary session because i believe that consumers should be able to resolve disputes between buyers and sellers easily and quickly when they make purchases online. until now, the european union has not had a uniform system for resolving such disputes out of court, but now a buyer who is not satisfied with the goods or services purchased will be able to use a specially created online platform for resolving disputes. it will be free of charge in all the languages of the european union and will allow the buyer to fill in a standardised complaint form which will be evaluated and redirected to a more appropriate dispute resolution scheme. this will now also allow for effective dispute resolution where the buyer has purchased goods or services in another eu member state. the new system provides for an objective and transparent resolution of disputes within 90 days, while ensuring a high level of consumer protection. such a dispute settlement mechanism will be much cheaper overall and will save money for latvian consumers.
in writing. − the launch of an online dispute resolution platform will support consumers seeking redress via alternative dispute resolution and will make out of court redress easier for consumers.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament and council directive on alternative dispute resolution and amending regulation (ec) no 2006/2004 and directive 2009/22/ec at the european parliament plenary session because i believe that consumers have the right to simple, efficient and inexpensive dispute resolution when buying goods or services both in a traditional way and online, regardless of where in the european union this is done. alternative dispute resolution involves not initiating legal proceedings but resolving the dispute through, for example, arbitration or a judicial body or other alternative body that determines or proposes a solution. i support the idea that adr should be available in any market sector and that all adr entities should be of the same high quality and ensure fair and efficient operation. research shows that problems in buying goods or services in the single market caused financial losses of 0.4% of total eu gdp in 2010. i believe that such losses are unacceptable and that the new system will solve these problems.
in writing. − the mandatory setting up of a quality alternative dispute resolution mechanism within all the eu countries represents a concrete way to enforce consumer rights and to guarantee affordable and fast solutions and redress in consumer commercial disputes. alternative dispute resolution systems that function well will engender more consumer confidence and thereby more economic growth within the eu single market.
in writing. − the commission should make every effort to ensure that the budgetisation of the edf as from 1 january 2021 proceeds as smoothly as possible, and to keep parliament regularly informed of progress on its preparations. this budgetisation must lead to improved aid predictability, and never serve as a pretext for reducing expenditure on development aid. the arrangements for democratic scrutiny must provide for the involvement of the national parliaments in the monitoring of how budget appropriations are spent.
in writing. − protection of the public, both young and old, from the long-term effects of radioactive substances in water is fundamental. consumers should be immediately informed of any risks of radioactive contamination in the water they are drinking.
in writing. − to introduce stricter budgetary discipline and more responsible financial planning by the member states, several agreements and regulations are already in force in the european union. unfortunately, the stability and growth pact, the eiro plus pact and the six legislative acts that i have helped to draft are still not enough to achieve the results needed to ensure financial stability. the commission has therefore come up with two regulations to strengthen existing legislation in this area. a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance of euro area member states experiencing or threatened with financial stability difficulties provides for the power of the european commission to initiate a surveillance procedure in respect of a member state experiencing financial stability problems. this means that the country concerned will have to report regularly to the european commission and coordinate its decisions with it. the european commission may also require a member state to turn to international lenders for a loan. in fact, this regulation introduces preventive measures to ensure that the financial crisis does not reach the scale of, for example, greece in any of the member states. the latvian people have already experienced a crisis, which was intensified by events outside our country's borders. now, in order to strengthen the latvian economy and entrepreneurs, it is necessary to ensure stability in our export markets. that is why i voted in favour of this regulation.
in writing. − the italian elections have once more shown that european citizens reject the austerity policies. if the commission is ready to work on mutualising parts of sovereign debts through a redemption fund, as well as on issuing euro bills, then there will be sense in discussing it. i abstained.
in writing. − the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for the monitoring and evaluation of draft budgetary plans and for the prevention of excessive budgetary deficits in the euro area member states is one of two regulations complementing the existing legislation on budgetary discipline in the member states. the regulation lays down requirements for euro area countries to report budgetary plans and projected budget deficits. member states must send the european commission, in due time, no later than 30 april, a budget plan for the following year showing where the money will be spent and where it will be received. in assessing the sustainability of a member state's budget, recommendations will be made, if necessary, by both the european commission and the council. this process already exists in the european semester, but this time the eu institutions are given additional powers, such as the european commission can request additional information from the member state, and countries have to report on debt securities issues, etc. i voted for this regulation because it is a logical and necessary element to ensure future growth. this regulation should be seen in the context of all that has been done to increase stability in europe and the euro area. the amendments i tabled were supported by parliament and have been incorporated in the final text of the resolution.
in writing. − the commission will have to ensure that social dialogue and national wage systems are respected and parliament is informed at all stages of the procedure. the report ensures that national budget, budgetary procedure and policies, draft budgetary plans and national medium-term fiscal plans are consistent with the european semester, including the macroeconomic imbalances procedure. it also improves the content of the draft budgetary plan.
in writing. − venture capital funds provide financing for the creation of new companies, for the implementation of innovative ideas, i.e. for high-risk business projects. risk capital funds are important because they provide funding when banks are reluctant to lend to projects with an excessively high risk profile. however, venture capital funds in europe are not as successful as in the us, for example. in latvia too, due to objective circumstances, the availability of risk capital is insufficient. the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european venture capital funds addresses this problem by seeking to integrate the fragmented venture capital fund market in the european union, as there are certain obstacles to the cross-border operation of such a fund in another member state. this creates additional costs for the fund and discourages investment. the funds will now be able to qualify as a 'european venture capital fund', which means the ability to invest throughout the european union with relaxed registration and operating conditions. moreover, the rules will no longer be different in all the countries of the european union, which was also the main obstacle to the work of these funds across the borders of the host country. i voted for the regulation because it is an important support for innovative entrepreneurs and scientists who need funding to implement their ideas and bring them to the benefit of the national economy.
in writing. − this proposal sets up a european venture capital investment instrument, with the aim of supporting economic growth in the eu, especially for smaller and medium enterprises, and creating an alternative to bank funding. the regulation creates an eu label, meant to help the fund attract money for investment. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european social entrepreneurship funds introduces a new framework to support enterprises engaged in social entrepreneurship. the main difference between such businesses is that the companies work for the benefit of society and the profits generated are not distributed among the owners but are instead used for projects of social importance. as in the case of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european venture capital funds, this regulation introduces a specific category of funds 'european social entrepreneurship funds' by facilitating the investment and registration of these funds in the member states by establishing uniform operating rules throughout the european union. i voted for this regulation because i believe that social entrepreneurship needs to be supported not only by public funding and various grants, but also by making private sector funding more accessible to it.
in writing. − the report calls on the commission to stop budget cuts, especially in the public sector to social benefits and social welfare, education and childcare services, and it points to the stereotypes such as pay gaps between men and women and the lack of balance between work and private life, as important aspects aggravating the crisis for women.
in writing. − this focuses on the causes of gender stereotypes, in the areas of education, media, advertising, the labour market and decision-making. gender stereotypes in primary and secondary schools influence the perception of young children and youngsters of how men and women should behave. negative stereotypes also can be influenced by television where young women’s self-confidence and self-esteem can result in a restriction of their aspirations, choices and possibilities. gender stereotypes in the labour market cause a disproportionate representation of women in part-time jobs. awareness-raising campaigns are therefore needed to inform employers about the link between the gender pay gap and part-time jobs and the risk of lower pension funds when women retire. we should achieve full awareness of society on this issue. in favour.
in writing. − full compliance with eu environmental law is a treaty obligation and a criterion for the use of eu funding in the member states. however, i do not understand what is the point of making 100 reports on this issue? the conclusions are obvious. i voted in favour.
commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. my gue/ngl group recognises the need for reform of the cap, but we are not satisfied with the content of the negotiating mandate proposed for a whole range of issues. for example, we believe that tied payments should be used to promote employment and that these decisions should be reviewed every year to take account of new circumstances. the small farmers' system should be made compulsory, since there is no one to defend small farmers in rural areas. the number of foreigners in the country should not be limited. there must be a clear definition of an active farmer and a decision on cap payments must be taken on that basis. they either keep the owners' property and relieve them of the burden of managing it, or they solve the problems of tens of millions of hungry citizens of the european union. an active farmer must produce agricultural products, not just plow the fields. finally, my constituents in latvia agree that sugar production quotas should be abolished as of 1 october 2015. the abolition of the quota will increase the area of sugar beet and lower the price of sugar in the european union, make the industry more profitable and benefit everyone. thank you.
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. historically, baltic farmers have received the lowest direct payments in europe, while production costs are not significantly different. and increasingly, the baltic states are asking: 'why do we have to comply with all the common policy requirements when we receive four times less than some places in western europe?' the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. that's not fair competition. i therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, to correct this injustice and to support amendment no 139, which provides that from 2014 farmers in all member states will receive no less than 55% of the average payment in the european union and in 2019 no less than 75%. this would reduce disparities at least in the region. ten years after our accession, there is no longer any justification for baltic farmers to work under unfair competition conditions for at least another seven years. my fellow citizens! i ask you to support the 139th amendment! know that your vote will be followed by all of estonia, latvia and lithuania!
it's not really about the math or the number of meps. i think they are concerned about the principles of the european union, because often, behind the beautiful words about democracy and cohesion in the european union, we see the countries of the european union divided into debtor countries, creditor countries, emigrant member states and immigrant member states. in member states which have lost 10 per cent of their population during the crisis and, in effect, remain citizens of another country, they lose representation in their own country because they have temporarily gone to work in other countries. and they are leaving in large part because discriminatory conditions still exist in the european union, whether the direct payments in agriculture that we are discussing today or our own internal regulations in the european parliament on a number of issues. at the same time, the european union member states are fighting very hard for every share vote in the international monetary fund against the brics countries, who have reason to say that the european union member states would have less shares in the imf. we need to be correct about these future issues, thinking about 2015. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there's a lot of talk about growth these days. growth is what europe needs. of course it is. the only thing that's not clear is how to actually get there. several colleagues have spoken about the need to stimulate the european economy. my friends, if we had money to incentivize, that would be a good solution, but in today's circumstances, incentivizing means borrowing money. and we know that borrowing money is not the answer. if that were the solution, europe would not be in crisis at all. if we want to achieve growth in europe, we need to do two things. on the one hand, member states must keep their budgets in order so that they do not live beyond their means. if anyone doesn't think this can work, that it can be done, look at the baltic states. it really works, and it lays the foundation for growth. but to really get the big growth momentum, we need to complete the single market. ladies and gentlemen, the european commission informs us that there are 73 directives which have not yet been implemented in the member states, and this hinders the functioning of the single market. we must ask the council of europe not to talk about the details, but to finally do what the commission is also suggesting, namely to solve this problem by introducing these directives so that the single market in europe can function. the single market is the key to our growth. thank you for your attention.
chairman! here, several speakers praised the actions of the government of my country, latvia, in the field of saving. i would say that people could adopt austerity measures, but only if they are based on the principles of equity. unfortunately, this was not the case in latvia. and all of the savings were made at the expense of the less well-off. people didn't accept it. but unfortunately, given that our people have no hope of making a difference by being active in the country, they have decided to simply vote with their feet. and now our most able-bodied people are gone to other countries in the european union, including those that are not doing austerity.
in writing. – on 13 march a preparatory meeting of the eu-ukraine parliamentary cooperation committee was held in strasbourg. to my regret, the only mp present from ukraine was grigory nemyria. strange, and i wonder why members of the ukrainian verkhovna rada did not arrive in strasbourg. perhaps integration into the eu is not a priority for the ukrainian foreign ministry and for the parliament of ukraine. given that the eu-ukraine association agreement should be signed in november 2013 in vilnius, i understand this ‘active’ position of the government and parliament of ukraine. over the past three years there has been a lot of work on the recognition of ukraine in the eu. today, all the results of this joint work are sent to the trash. members of the european parliament who have been actively involved in the eu-ukraine forum understand that ukraine itself does not need it. i call on ukrainian mps to compose urgently before 20 march 2013 a list of delegates to the eu-ukraine parliamentary cooperation committee. otherwise, the committee meeting of the working group on 2-4 april in kiev will have no sense.
in writing. − the aim of the report was to highlight the achievements women have attained, but also to point out the continuing difficulties and potential pitfalls women still have to face in their quest for equality, and finally how eu instruments should be used to support women’s rights and gender equality. in some countries, such as tunisia, women had obtained a rather advanced legislation for the protection of their rights under the ben ali regime.
in writing. − budget support should still be an important component of the 11th edf, subject to closer dialogue with the beneficiary countries on human rights issues. i am in favour.
in writing. − parliament accepts the political agreement reached on the overall mff ceilings at the european council of 7-8 february, which reflects a pragmatic and realistic response to difficult fiscal and economic conditions in all member states.
in writing. − i support the resolution on the conclusions of the european council of 7 and 8 february on the multiannual financial framework and i join the call for a review of the agreement on the multiannual financial framework adopted by the european council, with the full involvement of the european parliament in this process, in accordance with the treaty of lisbon. the resolution stressed parliament's condemnation of the lack of transparency in the agreement reached by the european council, both in terms of multiannual budget expenditure and revenue. it is essential that, in the further negotiations with the council of the eu, the parliament receives all relevant information at the disposal of the european commission on the levels of member states' approved grants under the cohesion and agricultural policies, including derogations and specific grants per member state, as well as all information on the impact of each member state on the decisions taken on the revenue share of the budget. it is believed that behind closed doors in the eu council, the eu tax money was used to create secret transactions between individual member states. some of them were successful, some of them were not so successful. and unfortunately, in many cases, they were not fair or economically sound criteria against which agreements were reached. the resolution by parliament, which clearly points out these shortcomings and calls for adjustments to the multiannual budgetary framework, is therefore to be welcomed.
in writing. − the rules to be followed in the compilation and publication of essential macroeconomic data in the eu should be mandatory. it is necesary to seek to ensure that statistics are independent, reliable, comparable and timely. the revised esa seeks to provide eu citizens with the highest quality macroeconomic statistics, based on sound methodology and delivered in line with a precise timetable.
in writing. − eu provisions on flag state control should reflect much more what the maritime labour convention specifically and expressly requires to avoid different interpretations by member states, which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping.
in writing. − given the shortfalls and shortcomings of payment appropriations, which turn the eu budget in a deficit budget, parliament asks the commission to submit a draft amending budget to address pending claims, at the latest by the end of march 2013, and not to accept an insufficient level of payments for the next mff (2014-20). i am in favour.
in writing. − with the accession of croatia, the number of parliament’s seats must be cut by 15 before next year’s elections, think donor countries. i am categorically against. it is cynical and unfair.
in writing. − i cannot support the parliament's report on the composition of the european parliament in the run-up to the 2014 elections, because i consider it discriminatory towards those eu member states which lost part of their population during the crisis because of the austerity measures, leaving them to go to other member states where they had jobs. the principle of the authors of the resolution that the reduction in the number of seats follows the demographic changes of recent years means that these eu citizens will now lose their representation in the european parliament. and it will lose a lot because the eu still discriminates against member states, even in the area of direct payments to farmers. i regret that the majority of the house did not support the proposal of myself and my colleague from the ecr group, mr lajos bokros, to take account of the contribution that latvia, for example, has made to the stability of the eu's entire financial system by implementing a substantial 'cut-back' of the national budget, rescuing the parex bank and keeping the national currency unchanged, as recommended by the european commission. this approach resulted in a rapid decline of the latvian economy and an increase in unemployment, which led to the departure of many latvians. now latvia and other eu member states, which deliberately followed the deflationary path recommended by the european commission to overcome the crisis, are being punished again.
in writing. − parliament opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation amending annexes ii and iii to regulation (ec) no 110/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on the definition, description, presentation, labelling and the protection of geographical indications of spirit drinks.
in writing. − in line with the europe 2020 strategy to promote resource efficiency with a view to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for eu agricultural and rural areas, the objectives set for cap reform are clearly: 1) viable food production; 2) sustainable management of natural resources and climate actions; 3) balanced territorial development; 4) fair use of financial instruments.
in writing. − amendment 139 to the cap legislation on direct payments, submitted by the baltic meps from all major political groups, is very important to baltic farmers as it helps to eliminate unjustified historical differences in direct payments among european farmers and baltic farmers. these unjustified differences distort free competition in the single market and maintain significant disparities within a region with practically identical agricultural production conditions. without this correction, in the next financial period, for example, latvian farmers would on average receive eur 155 per hectare, while polish farmers, some 250 kilometres away, would receive more than 50 % more – eur 227 per hectare. this proposal has very little impact on the overall european 7-year budget framework, i.e. 0.15 % of the direct payments budget. it is important that parliament sticks to this position during the upcoming negotiations with the council.
in writing. − parliament decides to open interinstitutional negotiations.
in writing. − the sugar sector has been the most regulated agricultural sector in the eu's common agricultural policy to date. in view of the development and trends of the world market, sugar quotas should be abolished as soon as possible in order to promote the liberalisation of agricultural markets, rather than maintaining them until 2020, with the possibility of extending them further. european sugar producers are already competitive and the market is much more demanding than supply. the abolition of sugar quotas would allow producers to resume sugar production in each member state where it was restricted by eu quotas, in order to produce sugar at least for domestic consumption and to create new jobs.
in writing. − parliament decides to open interinstitutional negotiations.
in writing. − parliament decides to open interinstitutional negotiations.
in writing. − we need a clean, sustainable energy system fit for the future – to provide competiveness and energy independence, reducing imports and investing domestically. the 2030 binding targets are key to this.
in writing. − this takes note of the commission communication on stress tests and their results, in the wake of the fukushima accident. it welcomes the efforts made by the commission, especially through ensreg, and by the national regulators to subject 145 reactors in the eu and 20 reactors outside the eu to a stress test procedure. it emphasises the usefulness of this procedure and its character as an unprecedented exercise at world level, expects that the results of the stress tests will contribute to enhancing a nuclear safety culture in europe, thus setting a leading example internationally, and praises the efforts made to make the stress tests as transparent as possible. i totally support the commission!
in writing. − parliament calls for measures to ensure the implementation of national roma integration strategies through periodic reviews, monitoring and support to enable local, regional and national authorities to develop and implement effective human-rights-compliant policies, programmes and action for the inclusion of roma, using available funds, including eu funds, while strictly monitoring respect for fundamental rights and the implementation of directive 2004/38/ec on the right to move and reside freely.
in writing. − even if not all open questions can be answered now, it is time to act in accordance with the precautionary principle.
chairman! it is a pity that mr. šulca is not conducting this part of the session, because i wanted to address directly to him the questions that many latvians have when reading his interview on april 3rd on our largest portal delfi, in which mr. šulca praises the resilience of the latvian people in times of crisis and describes the country's economy as stable and growing. these questions are as follows. do you really believe, mr. schulz, that austerity measures are conducive to sustained economic growth? and even if you do, do you agree with the high social cost of this measure, which experts have called catastrophic? the latvian economy is not growing at all production in january this year fell by 3.5% compared to the previous month. in a ranking prepared for the un, latvia's standard of living ranks 106th, eight places lower than iraq's and 105 places lower than denmark's. the latvian people are full of danger and disappointment. i think social democrats should be fighting for social justice, not supporting a neoliberal dictatorship.
in writing. − electronic communications, infrastructure and services are an essential element for today’s society, and cyber-security is acknowledged as a crucial factor for europe’s security. if the opening of a branch office in athens is allowed in order to improve the agency’s efficiency, and provision is made for a revision of the mandate in 7 years, then i vote in favour.
in writing. − we should vote in favour because tens of thousands of cetaceans are dying every year in eu waters. regulation (ec) no 812/2004, which has serious shortcomings, mainly focuses on the use of acoustic devices to deter the incidental catching of cetaceans despite the fact that cetaceans face various threats such as habitat degradation, collisions with vessels and underwater noise pollution.
in writing. − the new fisheries partnership agreement and the new protocol are balanced and cover the interests of both parties, and consent to their conclusion by parliament is therefore recommended.
in writing. − at the plenary sitting of 12 december 2012, the president announced that he had received a letter from the vienna public prosecutor’s office, forwarded by the permanent representation of austria to the european union on 27 june 2012, requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr hans-peter martin. i am against the waiver of immunity since i think that the mep should fulfill his obligations first.
in writing. − the frankenthal chief public prosecutor intends to bring criminal proceedings against jürgen creutzmann on the basis of allegations that he has committed the criminal offence of causing bodily harm by negligence under section 229 of the german criminal code. in its letter of 5 november 2012, the frankenthal public prosecutor states that mr creutzmann, as the driver of a vehicle, allegedly failed to give way to another vehicle at a junction, thus causing a collision between the two vehicles. the passenger of the other vehicle suffered serious injuries in the accident.
in writing. − at the sitting of 10 september 2012 the president announced that he had received a letter of 9 july 2012 from the vienna public prosecutor’s office requesting that the parliamentary immunity of ewald stadler be waived in the context of proceedings being conducted by the austrian judicial authorities.
in writing. − at the final trilogue last month, the council and the commission agreed to a compromise date of 1 october 2014 – giving acp countries an extra nine months of access to the eu market.
in writing. − the eu emissions trading system is one of the pillars of our climate policy. backloading is only a short-term measure, which should not be seen as a solution to the current imbalances but rather as an option that ensures the stability of the eu emissions trading system until the necessary long-term structural measures are adopted.
in writing. − the eu wants to find a comprehensive way to address emissions from planes at global level. if no agreement is reached by september 2013 at icao on a specific timetable for a global market-based instrument to reduce aviation emissions, the eu’s emissions trading scheme will be applied to all international flights again.
in writing. − it is necessary to replace the current capital requirements directives and to call for higher equity capital requirements for banks. in favour.
in writing. − it is important to include the possibility for member states to introduce a further degree of flexibility in terms of minimum capital requirements.
in writing. - i think the rule is supportive. it is seen in the context of the second proposal for a directive put to the vote by parliament, 'credit institutions and advisory supervision' (a7-0170/2012), which together constitute a legislative package that should provide adequate requirements for the capital of banks and the supervision of their activities throughout the european union. the banking crisis in the world, the eu and latvia showed that the current system of supervision of banks, as well as the requirements for the size and quality of their capital, are not able to protect them from problems at the time of the crisis. the new regulation will enable supervisory authorities, including the latvian financial and capital market commission, to ensure that banks are better able to settle their liabilities in the event of a new banking shock. the related directive would restrict the short-term profit bonuses for bankers, risking the long-term stability of banks. the beneficiaries of the new legislation will be both depositors, as the risk of bank failure will be reduced by the tightening of capital requirements, and borrowers, as banks will no longer have to reduce lending to businesses and households so rapidly during an economic downturn. taxpayers will also feel safer, as their money will reduce the risk that eu governments may again have to bail out banks, significantly reducing budgetary expenditure for other purposes.
in writing. − the commission’s proposal aims at raising the minimum number of groundhandling providers from two to three for airports with a minimum of 5 million passengers per year. i think this will give an opportunity to compete and create market prices. in favour.
in writing. − as in the previous vote by parliament last december, i support the european commission's proposal to liberalise the market and increase competition between ground handling providers at large eu airports (over 15 million passengers). while there are several elements in parliament's position which raise concerns that they could unnecessarily complicate the operation of both airports and ground handling companies, such as uniform quality requirements for ground handling services defined in the regulation and disproportionately strong job guarantees for staff, ensuring their relocation in the event that an airport decides to change service provider, it is nevertheless important to support the package of amendments proposed by parliament and to avoid a final rejection of the proposal for a regulation. in the absence of such a proposal, it would be ineffective to wait for any new market opening initiatives over the next decade to end the monopoly of the existing ground handling service providers at several major eu airports. the liberalisation of the sector will improve the quality and efficiency of ground services and reduce costs, and this is also in the interest of air passengers. the approval of parliament's position is also essential to enable parliament and the council to start negotiations on all three new pieces of legislation, including the allocation of airport slots and noise restrictions at airports.
in writing. − the main purpose of the proposal is to put a discard ban in place in the skagerrak, an essential objective of the common fishery policy reform. the proposal puts in place a landing obligation (25 species named in annex 1) and the supporting rules necessary to monitor this obligation and carry out inspections ensuring it is respected. it is hard to disagree.
in writing. − the directive prohibits discrimination based on sex both in the access to and supply of goods and services. in favour.
in writing. − the eu can and must promote good governance by means of its trade policy. it should insist on transparency and correct procedures before cooperation is initiated. targeted aid to facilitate and promote the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises in developing countries is important. multinational undertakings often have a big impact on society and the environment in developing countries, and they are responsible for what kind of an impact they have on the local society: they can either help or hinder development. the eu should investigate the scope for cooperation between businesses and formal aid donors in these fields. there cannot be any room for protectionism on the part of the eu or individual eu member states when it comes to our trade relations with developing countries.
in writing. − i am in favour because the report offers recommendations on how the eu should adapt its trade policy to reflect the changing world economy and in particular our relations with developing countries. it examines why emerging economies have managed to become competitive global economies while others, least developed countries in particular, mainly in africa, continue to face difficulties in achieving the millennium development goals.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we all know that visa facilitation is of great significance in people’s lives and strengthens contacts between ordinary citizens, as the commissioner has underlined. the current visa facilitation agreement with ukraine has been extremely successful and there is a very low visa refusal rate, only 3.3%. the proposed changes in the agreement facilitate travelling for representatives of civil society, ngos, journalists and young people as well as clarifying provisions concerning the cost of outsourcing. our group shares the rapporteur’s position that the joint commitment between the european union and ukraine can effectively contribute to the development of democracy, the rule of law and human rights by promoting easier contacts and travel for people in the countries concerned. however, holding this debate means that we are not just turning a blind eye to some worrying developments in the field of ukrainian legislation concerning basic human rights. it is essential for relations between the european union and ukraine that the ukrainian law prohibiting discrimination covers discrimination on all the grounds mentioned in the eu charter on fundamental rights. in our opinion there is an urgent need to highlight our concerns in the context of eu relations with ukraine, and that is what we are doing now. we are grateful to the rapporteur, claude moraes, for initiating this debate. i hope that it will have some effect in terms of encouraging the improvements to the ukrainian legislation which we are all hoping for. meanwhile, ordinary people should not suffer. free travel offers a better chance of improving our relations.
in writing. – i think this is a historic step in relations between the eu and ukraine. very offensive and dishonest barriers have been removed on the road towards ukraine’s integration into the eu. but the work is not yet over. for three years we have been purposefully explaining to our colleagues, members of the european parliament, about the need to allow citizens of ukraine to receive visas to the eu in the simplest way possible. there is a lot of work ahead on establishing a visa free regime for ukrainian citizens. we have to do a lot in order to remove barriers of misunderstanding. ukraine is a friend of the eu and geographically an integral part of europe. for their active work towards a visa facilitation system, i would like to thank the following members of the european parliament – mep bogusław liberadzki, mep ivari padar, mep slavi binev, mep jacek włosowicz, mep vladko panayotov, mep béla kovács – and members of the verkhovna rada of ukraine, mykola katerinchuk, eduard zeinalov and irina heraschenko. with special gratitude to commissioner štefan füle and the former ukrainian minister of foreign affairs, konstantin grischenko.
for the ecr group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would also like to begin by thanking mrs danuta hubner for her report, although as we know and hear, there will be a lot of conflicting opinions. i would like to note that this report is in fact an attempt to harmonise the instruments for aid to euro-zone and non-euro-zone countries in times of crisis with instruments such as 'precautionary credit lines' and many others. and, more importantly, it has been attempted to define that those non-eurozone countries which are members of the ssm can also become members of the esm and thus also receive the assistance provided by this fund, although there are still a whole series of legal obstacles to this instrument. and also this 10 billion efsm money that could go to the balance payment assistant facility, this program is also very controversial from the countries that have contributed to the efsm and want to get that money back into their national budgets. and so will the accessibility of non-euro area countries to this bank resolution mechanism, which will be a hugely important issue, as will the rehabilitation of commercial banks in non-euro area countries. in summary, i would say that the ecr group will not be united in this vote. there will be members who support this proposal, including myself, but there will also be those who think differently. in any event, i would not like to hear my colleague mr ferber say that the report may not be accepted. let's hope not. thank you.
in writing. − in favour, because this is the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2011, section iii – commission and executive agencies.
in writing. − the court of auditors’ special reports are performance-audit-based evaluations of eu policies and programmes. they examine to what extent policy objectives were met and targets achieved. they provide parliament with valuable information about sound financial management, and the efficiency and effectiveness of eu policies. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report examines all areas of parliament’s expenditure. in favour.
in writing. − i support the european development fund as the union’s most important financial instrument for development cooperation with the acp countries, aiming at poverty alleviation and economic development.
in writing. − just as parliament scrutinises budget implementation critically in the other institutions, and for itself, we want the same kind of scrutiny for the council’s spending. so far there has been no cooperation to allow parliament to make an informed decision, so once again discharge is withheld from the council. critical comments are made regarding the other institutions to varying degrees, but overall performance in terms of budget implementation is stable or improving.
in writing. − the court of justice interprets eu law to make sure it is applied in the same way in all eu countries. it also settles legal disputes between eu governments and eu institutions. individuals, companies or organisations can also bring cases before the court if they feel their rights have been infringed by an eu institution.
in writing. − the court is bound to report any problems in the court’s reports for the attention of other states and institutions. these reports include its general annual report as well as specific and special reports on certain bodies and issues.
in writing. − the european economic and social committee is a consultative body of the european union established in 1958. it is a consultative assembly composed of employers, employees and representatives of various other interests.
in writing. − any eu citizen or entity may appeal to the ombudsman to investigate an eu institution on the grounds of maladministration: administrative irregularities, unfairness, discrimination, abuse of power, failure to reply, refusal of information or unnecessary delay.
in writing. − the edps is an independent supervisory authority devoted to protecting personal data and privacy and promoting good practice in eu institutions and bodies.
in writing. − i support the ongoing organisational reforms and call on the administration to look for further efforts to compensate the exceptional one-year additional expenses due to the election of a new parliament in 2014.
in writing. − the commission’s proposal for a council regulation aims at streamlining procedures in financial assistance between the euro area and the non-euro area. parliament can only approve or reject the final proposal for a regulation and has no possibility to make amendments to its substance. in favour.
in writing. - the parliament's report is welcomed. the eu financial crisis has clearly shown that eu member states and their non-euro area banks are having difficulties in receiving financial assistance at the time of the crisis. the existing balance of payments mechanism, which also helped latvia in 2008-09, is limited in terms of resources and is guaranteed by the eu budget. logically, eu donor countries are not interested in making a significant loan under this mechanism. it is envisaged that the european stability mechanism (esm) created for the euro area countries could in future be used for the direct recapitalisation of euro area banks. at the same time, as the parliament's position rightly points out, the financial assistance instruments available to eu member states outside the euro area are not, in general, bank recapitalisation instruments. this means that banks in eu countries outside the euro area are in a much riskier position than euro area banks and are therefore less competitive. it is therefore important that banks in non-euro area countries also have access to an adequate crisis relief mechanism. the report presents two options for providing it: either a new financial instrument is created to provide loans to eu governments that could then be used to recapitalise banks (indirect recapitalisation), or non-euro area countries are allowed to participate in the esm by contributing to its capital with the aim of providing the possibility of receiving direct support for bank recapitalisation if needed.
in writing. − i support the measures taken by the ecb to lower the cost of borrowing for member states and stabilise the financial market. in favour.
in writing. − the commission proposes: 1) to harmonise the definition of vouchers for vat purposes; 2) to draw a clear line between vouchers and other means of payment; 3) to set up common rules for the distribution of vouchers in a chain of intermediaries.
in writing. − the report contains two straightforward recommendations: 1. it approves the amendment of annexes ii and iii to council decision 2011/432/eu as proposed by the commission; 2. it instructs its president to forward its position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states, as well as to the hague conference on private international law. i am in favour.
in writing. − this report and its points were prepared by the group of friends of ukraine in the european parliament and the verkhnovna rada of ukraine. it is undoubtedly a very positive step by parliament, in which all members of the group of friends of ukraine are engaged. sincerely and happily i vote in favour.
in writing. − i am in favour because parliament gives here its consent to the amended agreement between the eu and the republic of moldova, which expands the categories of moldovan citizens eligible for exemption of visa taxes, simpler visa application procedures, multiple-entry visas, and long-term visas for up to five years.
in writing. − i voted against. there is nothing concrete in the report apart from pathos and deep unprofessionalism. mrs vaidere was always generous on words and stingy in deeds.
in writing. − this is a technical file, which harmonises the collection of statistical data on demography. in favour.
in writing. − it is necessary to introduce the following key modifications to the commission proposal: (a) a financial mechanism to finance environmentally-sound ship recycling; (b) an inventory of hazardous materials for all ships calling at eu ports; (c) a ship recycling plan for all eu ships going for recycling or older than 20 years, to be approved by the competent authorities; (d) more explicit requirements on ship recycling facilities, not least to exclude beaching, as well as auditing and regular inspection of these facilities; and (e) criminal sanctions for certain violations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. politically correct would say we have a challenge. i'll put it simply. we have a problem, my friends. the problem is that we have energy prices that are so high that we are losing our competitiveness in the world. whereas in the united states, because they use carbon dioxide, their energy costs, the cost of electricity is three, four times cheaper than ours, we have more expensive electricity, and that means our households are paying disproportionately, our industry is paying disproportionately, and it's going to be increasingly difficult for us to compete in the global marketplace. the good news is, there is a solution. and that is the solution that the european council should adopt. so, first of all, there's a lot of emphasis on creating interconnections. not just talk about interconnections, but also build them by putting money, public money, where it's needed to keep prices level between european countries. secondly, europe must start to speak with one voice with our third country energy suppliers. collectively, we are a great power. and third, we have to use the energy resources that we have. not only renewable resources, but also carbon dioxide exploration. my friends, this is how we can combat high energy prices, improve our competitiveness and the well-being of our citizens. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. the single supervisory mechanism is undoubtedly important for solving the euro area's problems, but this step is certainly not enough, as we well know. this first step in the creation of the first pillar of the banking union seems to be such a heavy compromise that it shows that the european union, even in the part of it that has a common monetary system, is in fact confronted by cross-border financial market interests and national political interests. and unfortunately, this disproportion also creates a gap in many cases, as we see, among the citizens of the european union, which, without a doubt, again has a negative impact on the political processes in the european union. indeed, a single supervisory mechanism alone without this single resolution mechanism and the common euro area deposit guarantee fund has the potential to create problems in a member state, as bankers will still be able to operate in the single market and profit at its expense. decisions for the euro area as a whole will be taken centrally at the level of the european central bank, but the burden will be borne only by the member states that own the banks. unfortunately, there will be situations where countries will just try to avoid insolvency crises and the other countries will have to come together once again to help the countries in difficulty, at the risk of the entire financial market, which may turn against the euro area as a whole. understanding this, i think we must do everything we can to ensure that the banking union stands on three legs. respectively, to make it clear that the european commission is moving forward and that parliament and the council also understand the need to create a resolution mechanism and also to create a common deposit guarantee fund. thank you.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. when a natural disaster happens, when buildings are damaged, we always go back to building codes afterwards, how can we build buildings in the future so that they don't go to waste? now, we've had this kind of a crisis in the world, the so-called economic crisis, which has resulted in a loss of confidence in the banking system as such. so we have to look at what we can do to strengthen, to transform this system so that it is more sustainable. our answer is a banking union. a banking union with four main pillars. so we have the same rules of the game for all banks. it's already been accepted. what we have been talking about today is the single supervisory mechanism for banks. the third would be a bank resolution procedure, to be uniform across europe. the fourth is the single deposit guarantee scheme. if we build this banking union on these four pillars, we will not only be able to restore citizens' trust in the banking system, but we will be able to make a real contribution to the development of the european economy. because what's gonna happen? first, the depositors will feel safe. banks will again feel safe to lend to individuals and businesses. and the key is that in the event of problems, that is, if some banks are facing serious problems, as was the case recently in cyprus, that there is a uniform, predictable procedure that is put in place, rather than having to think over how to put out the next fire every time. so, ladies and gentlemen, i very much support the move towards single banking supervision as a crucial component of banking union and we will support it in the vote tomorrow. thank you for your attention.
in writing. −the amount of money that is not going into the eu's coffers because individuals and businesses avoid paying taxes is impressive. the european commission estimates that it is €1 trillion, compared with the gdp of all eu countries of around €16 trillion. tax evasion creates unfair competition in sectors and disrupts the functioning of the eu's single market. in its resolution on combating tax fraud, tax avoidance and tax havens, the european parliament calls on the member states and the european commission to develop closer cooperation between national authorities, to implement a common eu position on third countries and other tax jurisdictions, to introduce new and improved legislation and to take other necessary measures to combat such fraudulent activities. at the same time, these measures must not restrict the free movement of capital within the eu and increase the administrative burden on companies. latvian citizens and businesses will benefit from more orderly eu tax legislation, which will promote fair competition across the eu and broaden the single market to make it easier for honest businesses to enter. for the reasons set out above, i supported this resolution in the vote in plenary.
in writing. − growth in the european union has stalled and national tax revenues have declined. this is why many eu countries are implementing tax policy reforms, the importance of which is underlined in the european parliament's resolution on the annual report on taxation: how to unlock the eu's economic growth potential. i believe that tax policy changes should be implemented by countries in a way that does not jeopardise future growth and promotes economic competitiveness. however, the answer to the crisis is one the full functioning of the eu market. there are still many obstacles to cross-border business due to different tax laws, which create high costs, uncertainties and time-consuming. there is still a lack of information on how both individuals and companies should operate in other countries' jurisdictions. i am amending the resolution to address these problems. the amendments i tabled were supported and have been incorporated in the text of the resolution which was supported by the european parliament.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation conferring specific tasks on the european central bank in relation to the policy on the supervision of credit institutions is to be welcomed. central supervision of banks in the euro area (and other eu countries wishing to join) will reduce the risk of bank failures due to poorly chosen banking strategies and insufficient capital. such supervision is particularly important for financially vulnerable countries, such as latvia, where the high level of short-term deposits of non-residents poses a significant risk. at the same time, centralised supervision of banks is only the first step towards a fully-fledged banking union with a single banking resolution mechanism and a common euro area deposit guarantee fund. only these elements together can break the link between the problems of banks and the solvency of the eu member states, which are so corrosive to the economy. without a common deposit guarantee fund, there will be situations in the future where large national banks adopt an aggressive strategy in the eu's peripheral countries, leading to financial difficulties for their governments to solve with the resources of their taxpayers.
in writing. – in a package dealing with fighting against corruption it would be appropriate to consider the situation in the latvian republic. largely due to imperfect legislation in latvia, corruption schemes and serious abuses by officials and elected representatives are thriving. the law allows municipal representatives to combine any number of posts in a municipality. that leads to a situation where some municipal representatives receive from 10 to 50 minimum wages monthly while not showing up at their place of work for months. such provisions in latvian law on municipalities has led to abuses on an unprecedented scale. it has come to the point where the deputy mayor of the latvian capital, riga, has been nicknamed ‘mister 20%’. taking into account all the abovementioned, i consider it necessary to start working on the fight against corruption via eu legislation, by amending it with the aim of minimising the risk of corruption.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. what do you think democracy is? translated from the greek, it is tautas vara. but if the people believe in power, then the people vote in elections. latvia also held municipal elections on 1 june, with less than 30% of the population voting. is that a record of faithfulness or a total failure? if this continues, in a few years' time, no more than 15% of the population will vote in latvia during elections. is this a true democracy? there is an urgent need to introduce in the european union a rule that elections are only valid if at least 50% of the population votes. otherwise, the elections will become a farce not only in latvia, but in the european union as a whole. thank you.
i would like to commend the positions of the commissioner and the commission, as well as the rapporteur, on these important issues. at the same time, i think that in the future we should work towards ensuring that there are no pesticide residues in products intended for children. they should be produced from organic agricultural products. there's nothing about using gmos. in particular, it should cover soy products and soy milk as such. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of workers from harmful substances are respected. and as far as supplementary feeding is concerned, i think we should ban the idealization of these products as being helpful and harmless. they should be monitored more closely. i am satisfied with the overall text and i shall be voting in favour of it.
in writing. − the council regulation contains some provisions, namely articles 10 and 11, which confer decision-making powers on the council while this is not possible any longer under the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is necessary to align the regulation to the new treaty framework by replacing the current council decisions by delegated acts and by legislative acts adopted according to the ordinary legislative procedure in order to make other changes to the plan. therefore i am in favour.
in writing. − mr kurski is accused of committing a traffic offence by making a left turn in breach of a ‘no left turns’ sign and crossing double continuous lines. i voted against.
in writing. − ms handzlik is accused of having requested the european parliament to reimburse the costs of attending a language course on the basis of the relevant provisions although she did not attend the said course. i am against waiver of immunity.
in writing. − the cologne public prosecutor states that mr alvaro, as the driver of a vehicle, was involved in a serious road traffic accident on the a1 motorway resulting in the death of one person and serious injuries sustained by three further people. the cologne public prosecutor has requested the waiver of mr alvaro’s immunity in order to conduct investigations related specifically to mr alvaro’s involvement in the accident, in particular as regards the question of whether it could have been avoided by mr alvaro. i do not care what prosecutor requested. i voted against.
in writing. − i think it i necessary to have effective redress measures, transparent consumer information and strong support for consumer organisations in order to tackle the challenges consumers meet in a globalised, digitised world and to ensure a high level of consumer protection despite the financial crisis. i am in favour.
in writing. − data provided from the commission indicate a swift implementation by member states; citizens’ awareness of their rights under this directive remains low, procedures need to be simplified to allow citizens to apply for legal aid without the help of a foreign lawyer and free services should be developed. in favour.
in writing. − the aim of the regulation proposal is to lay down the procedures enabling the customs authorities to prevent the movement of goods which they suspect of infringing intellectual property rights. i voted in favour.
in writing. − a union list of substances which may be added to foods covered is annexed to the regulation. it contains all approved substances under existing law. i would increase the existing list. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report sets the permitted limits for workers’ exposure to electromagnetic fields. very timely report; thus all mobile phones are to be prohibited. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the commission has suggested aligning the regulation to the new treaty framework by replacing the current council decisions by delegated acts and by legislative acts adopted according to the ordinary legislative procedure in order to make other changes to the plan. a very up-to-date plan. it ought to have been changed 10 years ago but the commission has woken up only now. i am in favour.
in writing. − the report says that corruption, money laundering and organised crime represent a threat for european democracy for citizens and for legal markets. in a period of economic and social crisis, all resources deviated from legal activity must be recovered and directed to the real economy supporting legal, decent and sustainable work. in favour.
in writing. − i am confident that social housing is a right. it is not just a cost, but is a productive investment, with a wider positive impact upon society and the economy. the crisis should not be used as an excuse to cut expenditure on social housing, especially when the demand for housing is increasing. it is necessary to ensure that adequate funds are available for social housing, and to guarantee consistency between various eu policies on this issue – including state aid, competition policy and structural funds. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − women should be free to move and choose a job according to their education and professional qualifications. enough financial support should be assigned to educational programmes such as erasmus, comenius, grundtvig and others. to get women to move as much as men (27 to 44%) would require member states’ attention to the work-life balance. moreover, the report regulates the percentage of women on the boards of companies. that is nonsense! therefore, i abstained!
in writing. − the report’s main elements are: the need to create an effective and interoperable european electronic toll service (eets); the service should be proportionate, non-discriminatory, affordable, user friendly and take into consideration the specific situation of cross-border users; member states should be allowed to set out the amount charged for road use and to decide how to spend the revenues collected; a common european road sign should be created that informs road users about toll services and their costs; and developing online payments, while protecting personal data. i voted in favour.
in writing. - the parliament's report on the strategy for a european electronic road toll collection service and a passenger vehicle tolling system is not to be supported. the current difficult financial situation shows that neither member states nor industry stakeholders have shown any interest in developing an interoperable european electronic road toll service (eets) due to a lack of economic interest. it would therefore not be appropriate to require a new eu regulation in this area to increase the legislative pressure for the implementation of compatible eets, as recommended in the report. this is all the more so because in several eu member states, including latvia, the eurovignette 1 fee has not yet been introduced and no road tax is levied on heavy goods vehicles. the report also contains several other unacceptable requirements for the application of infrastructure charges and fees by member states, such as the preference for departure over travel time systems. this unjustifiably puts a uniform approach on the member states, despite their economic and geographical differences. for example, a time-related user charge system should be applied to freight cars queuing at the eu external border crossing points with russia, taking into account the high environmental damage caused by vehicles standing in this queue but moving very slowly.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, minister, colleagues, first of all i would like to thank our rapporteurs, mr coelho and mrs weber for their long-lasting efforts to maintain parliament’s position as it was approved by the vote in the libe committee one year ago, and it is very regrettable that these efforts were not crowned with success. in the greens/ale group from the very beginning we backed the proposed eu-based mechanism on the temporary reintroduction of border controls and on the evaluation of schengen. we also strongly opposed the revision of the legal basis for the schengen-related legislation, thus excluding parliament from the decision-making process. even if the commission failed to defend the union’s approach properly, parliament had to proceed with this, and voluntary consultation is hardly a good compromise. last but not least, the reference to illegal immigration is not acceptable for us at all. taking the above into account, we cannot support the deal of 29 may confirming the scaling-back of the eu’s border-free system at the whim of the european union governments. this outcome is clearly at odds with the integrity of schengen.
i'm grateful to arlene mccarthy for the professional work. but i want to point out that we should not be afraid to be precise. i would replace the word 'sanction' with 'criminal liability' for both the attempts to conceal information about securities market irregularities and the irregularities themselves. if we achieve results in this area, we can avoid a repeat of the situation in greece, latvia and hungary, where government silence led to serious financial and economic problems, but at the expense of the people of the european union. criminal liability is required. thank you.
in writing. − i voted against since i dislike the imprecise views expressed by the candidate.
in writing. − the order of part-sessions is unclever and irrational, which will lead to significant unjustified expenses. i voted against!
in writing. − the numerical strength of ep committees is to be changed, due to the accession of croatia to the eu on 1 july. i voted in favour.
in writing. − mr. mates is a trained economist, with lots of international experience. however, i voted against, since he seems to lack the technical knowledge about audit, audit standards and issues like performance/compliance audits.
in writing. − during the last ten years mr pufan has served as the secretary general of the romanian court of auditors. he is fully qualified for the job and showed a lot of technical knowledge from his work. however, due to the high level of corruption in romania, i voted against.
in writing. − our actions have to be consistent with our proposals on cfp reform and our wider renegotiation of fisheries partnership agreements. we have to put sustainability at the heart of our action both for fish caught in our waters and for fish caught in other waters. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − in my view, a clear and necessary objective of the directive is to ensure higher standards of treatment for asylum seekers with regard to reception conditions that guarantee a dignified standard of living, in line with international law. it also harmonises national rules on reception conditions in order to limit the secondary movements of asylum seekers between member states, and it lessens the administrative burden. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the so called early warning, preparedness and crisis management mechanism is introduced for defence and guarantees of civil rights and to address the root causes of malfunctioning of national asylum systems or problems stemming from particular pressures. it introduces a number of improvements on the protection level, provides more legal clarity, extends the rights to information and extends the possibility for unaccompanied minors to reunite with family members. therefore i am in favour.
in writing. − we need this directive to address the deficiencies in procedures for granting and withdrawing international protection, to ensure higher and more harmonised standards of protection and to prevent the gaps in protection and the risk of refoulement, thus progressing towards a common asylum procedure and a uniform status. i voted in favour.
in writing. − it is high time that we have the fund for european aid to the most deprived to both replace and expand upon the current eu food aid programme, which has been running since 1987. it would provide assistance to charities and ngos working with the most deprived, including homeless and children over the 2014-2020 period. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − eurodac is a community-wide information technology system, containing the fingerprint data of asylum seekers, created to facilitate the application of the dublin system. the objective of the regulation is to lay down strictly defined and harmonised rules regarding the storage, comparison and erasure of fingerprints, while also providing for data protection and data security safeguards. i voted in favour.
in writing. − last week an agreement with the irish presidency and the commission has been reached on the so-called ‘schengen governance package’. it constitutes a major achievement for schengen and for freedom of movement because schengen is finally transformed from a system based merely on intergovernmental cooperation into a truly european system where the european parliament will provide democratic scrutiny. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the amendments to the regulation laying down common rules for the reintroduction of border control at internal borders in emergency situations, agreed by the european parliament and the council, are to be welcomed on the basis of the lesser of two evils. it has already been proven in practice that member states allow internal border controls for political reasons, despite eu legislation on the free movement of persons across internal borders. it is therefore better that such action is precisely regulated at eu level, preventing individual member state governments from introducing internal border controls for populist purposes, such as to gain the favour of the public before elections. it is important that the amendments to the regulation provide for sufficiently stringent criteria for the reintroduction of internal border control, limiting it to the absolute minimum necessary to address internal or external threats: any reintroduction of border control should in fact be an exception and a last resort, applied on a limited scale and for a limited period of time, on the basis of specific, objective criteria and an assessment of the need assessed at eu level. it is also important that member states are given the possibility to reintroduce border controls at internal borders only for a limited period, any extension of which will have to be monitored at eu level.
in writing. − the evaluation mechanism will be based on a european approach. it provides for the involvement of the european institutions, as opposed to a purely intergovernmental approach. i voted in favour.
in writing. − exports of oil, gas and minerals are worth many times the value of international aid to the developing world, yet many of these countries remain trapped in poverty. developing countries around the world are being robbed of the chance to earn vital revenue from oil, gas and other mining resources. the new law delivers more transparency than any eu government was prepared to consider. this new law is a now a victory for transparency, for those who invest in these companies and most importantly for the developing world. i supported the initiative.
in writing. − this new law will be the main weapon in a global fight against corruption and ensuring that citizens of countries rich with resources could hold their governments accountable for exploitation of their natural resources. during the debates it was suggested no sanctions but criminal responsibility. i am in favour.
in writing. − in drawing up the 2014 draft budget, the commission’s first budgetary estimates for direct payments and market-related expenditure showed that the sub-ceiling under heading 2 for the financial year 2014 is likely to be exceeded. following the obligations of financial discipline, the commission proposes a cut of 4.91759% on those direct payments exceeding eur 5 000, representing eur 1471.4 million for the year 2013. the reason is to achieve the objective of a more balanced distribution of payments. i voted against since i disagree with any decrease in subsidies for latvian farmers.
in writing. − the amendments are responding to practical problems that have arisen during the first years of the schengen borders code. furthermore they provide for an explicit legal framework for bilateral agreements related to joint border checks and include international principles like to right to ask for international protection. before concluding or amending any bilateral agreement on shared border crossing points with a neighbouring third country, the member state concerned shall consult the commission as to the compatibility of the agreement with relevant eu legislation. in addition, there has been success in adding an explicit article on applying fundamental rights when applying this regulation: respect for fundamental rights by border guards and training of border guards on how to respect human rights; importance of free movement of persons; third-country nationals that are subject to second line checks should be given written information in a language they understand or may reasonably be presumed to understand, probably in russian! i am in favour.
in writing. − with the accession of croatia, the number of meps will be increased to 766; however, later it has to be decreased by 15 meps. i consider it incorrect to reduce the number of latvian representatives in the european parliament. i abstained.
in writing. − europe’s global competitiveness depends on its capacity to strengthen its social model. our vision for emu will start with a strong social pillar which guarantees a synthesis between the economic and fiscal aspects and the social dimension. our plans for a social pillar of emu include a detailed set of proposals on how economic and monetary union can be transformed into an economic, monetary and social union. therefore i am in favour.
in writing. − the existing system of regional state aids needs to be adapted to both new economic reality and the future cohesion policy, taking into account the effects in the real economy, job creation and regional development. therefore, i am in favour.
in writing. − this is the european parliament’s input into the 2011 as well as early input in the 2012 competition reports by the commission. most of our amendments were adopted including calling on the commission for the continued promotion of fair competition, social inclusion, public services, as well as respect of the eu 2020 targets and better management of company restructuring. i voted in favour.
in writing. − with this resolution the european parliament finds the overwhelming general lack of ambition being demonstrated by the council in its response to the crisis to be of very great concern; it is worried, furthermore, about the negative influence that national electoral cycles are having on the union’s ability to take autonomous decisions; it deplores the further postponing of all decisions on the future architecture of the emu. i do not understand why the decision on the future architecture of emu has been postponed for so long. i am in favour.
in writing. − finally there is a resolution which welcomes the fact that the european council has acknowledged the importance of youth employment to europe’s prosperity; it urges the european council and commission to step up their efforts to combat youth unemployment, as a part of a wider move to promote social rights and to address social imbalances within the european union; it stresses that the european parliament will closely monitor progress and observe whether the promised measures are implemented, especially as regards the youth guarantee. it is very timely! i am in favour!
in writing. − this motion for resolution is intended to show, first, parliament's willingness to negotiate, second, its reasonableness in terms of its red lines and, third, that the fault for the deadlock lies at the door of the commission and the council. i am in favour.
in writing. − the underlying objectives of the agreement include promotion of regional integration and good governance, with its gradual integration into the global economy, supported by accompanying development cooperation measures. cameroon is the only country of the central africa group to sign up to this interim epa. having enjoyed duty-free, quota-free access to the eu market since 2008, cameroon has committed to liberalising 80% of its imports over 15 years, excluding certain sensitive goods. therefore, i am in favour.
in writing. − the main purpose of the agreement is to assist acp countries in development by providing tax-free access for almost any goods to the eu market including financial and technical assistance.
in writing. − i became one of those who were defamed by the media. for three years i waited the decision of the court. today i am against permissiveness. i abstained.
in writing. − the purpose of this new directive amending the public sector information directive of 2003 is to facilitate and to extend the re-use of information and data held by public sector organisations in the eu. the public sector collects and maintains large amount of data, which can be a valuable input to digital innovative services such as transport planning, crime maps, voting records of parliamentarians. i am confident that improving and extending the re-use of such public sector information will lead to substantial economic benefits as well as increased transparency and efficiency in the public sector.
in writing. − in the resolution the european parliament recalls its willingness to complete first readings on at least all the commission proposals on financial services that are currently on the table before the term comes to an end in spring 2014. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − the ep calls on the turkish authorities to thoroughly investigate the police violence, to bring those responsible to justice and to offer compensation to the victims. i voted in favour because i am also deeply concerned at the disproportionate and excessive use of force by the turkish police in its response to the peaceful and legitimate protests.
in writing. − it is known that the current command structure of the eeas is marked by a complex system of multi-level hierarchies and elements previously unknown to eu administration, such as the position of a managing director or the existence of a corporate board. there is a need for a substantial review and simplification of these structures in order to remove obstacles that currently hamper the vertical flow of information and unnecessarily delay decisions in a service that should be ready to react quickly to emergencies. there should be more focus on strategic planning and more consistency between short and longer-term measures. i am in favour.
in writing. − it is necessary to ensure free choice of religion without any pressure. i am in favour.
in writing. − the eu and the us secure the involvement of new key powers, notably the eu’s two latin america strategic partners brazil and mexico, as well as canada. such cooperation is necessary not only to respond to competitive challenges from countries like china and india but also to help develop new markets in africa and to promote strong partnerships across the south atlantic. it can play an essential role in protecting the security of the atlantic basin and developing more sustainable use of energy resources. other common objectives could include environmental protection; fighting against human trafficking and joint efforts in dealing with the illegal immigration and the drugs trade. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european parliament reaffirms its continued support for the construction of an afghan state with stronger democratic institutions capable of securing national sovereignty, state unity, territorial integrity and prosperity for the people of afghanistan; it reaffirms that the peaceful future of afghanistan depends on the building of a stable, secure and economically sustainable state which is free of terrorism and narcotics and is based on the rule of law, strengthened democratic institutions, respect for the separation of powers and a strong parliament, and the guarantee of fundamental rights; it appreciates, in this connection, the important contributions made by eu development cooperation and by the eupol afghanistan mission, the extension of which is welcomed. i voted in favour.
in writing. − on 12 september 2007 a protocol was adopted under the auspices of international atomic energy agency was adopted. this protocol included regulations on jurisdiction, acknowledgement and enforcement of judicial decisions and influences eu legislature. in order to solve the problem of lack of unity among eu countries regarding rules regulating the procedure of acknowledgment and enforcement of judicial decisions, the commission committed itself to considering, in the very near future a decision which would give preference to eu rules for eu member states that ratified the 1997 protocol before accession to the eu, such as latvia and romania, and for eu countries which are contracting parties to the paris convention. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − the general aim of the reform of the rules is to have state aid which better contributes to the implementation of the europe 2020 agenda and to budget consolidation. i am confident that this proposal will contribute mainly to an improvement in the effectiveness of state-aid control. the improvements proposed by the commission are two-sided: on the one hand they are seeking to improve the resolution of complaints and, on the other, ensure effective and reliable gathering of information from the market. both seek to address the perceived problems of the complaints procedure and to increase the speed, efficiency and transparency of the procedure, as well as to help the commission truly concentrate on the most important cases in ensuring the proper functioning of the single market. i am in favour.
in writing. − the report calls for the eu to adopt a more united approach, both in negotiations with third countries and at the international civil aviation organisation. it expresses its concern about subsidies received by european carriers’ competitors and criticises delays in completing the single european sky. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the resolution of the european parliament on the eu's external aviation policy is welcome as it highlights the main challenges facing the eu aviation industry. the union's airlines face extremely high competition in the global aviation market, and it is therefore important to develop a unified and strong eu external aviation policy. i agree with the position expressed in the resolution that the principles of reciprocity, including market access, openness and fair competition, should be fully respected in external aviation policy towards third countries, ensuring a level playing field that benefits both consumers (i.e. passengers) and airlines. i would like to highlight in particular in the resolution the situation of russia's refusal to comply with the agreement on the phasing out of the application of the siberian overflight levy, and therefore as the application of this illegal transit levy creates discriminatory conditions for union carriers in the long term the eu should take retaliatory measures by prohibiting or restricting transit through its airspace or by taking any measures related to the use of eu airspace by russian airlines to motivate russia to abolish these levies, which are illegal as they are contrary to international agreements. the resolution calls on the commission and the council to assess possible measures to ensure the interoperability of airspace between russia and the eu. this principle of reciprocity with respect to the russian market for latvia and the other baltic states is also relevant in other transport sectors, in particular in the railway sector.
in writing. − this is a reaction to the first official reporting exercise by the member states for the year 2011. it contains a set of recommendations for future reporting, in particular with regard to compliance with the eu’s external action objectives. i am in favour since illiterate and bad reporting may present the eu with a few more greeces.
in writing. − ms le pen is accused of incitement to hatred, discrimination or violence against a group of persons on grounds of their religious affiliation. i am against since parliament should not impede meps from working.
in writing. − this initiative creates a new european legal form intended to facilitate the establishment and operation of foundations in the single market. it will allow foundations to channel private funds more efficiently to public-benefit purposes on a cross-border basis in the eu. this, in turn, should result in more funding being available for activities with a public-benefit purpose, due to lower costs for foundations – and should, therefore, have a positive impact on european citizens’ public good and the eu economy as a whole. i abstained, since there are no concrete measures and plans.
in writing. − the proposal incorporates the 2006 maritime labour convention (mlc) into the port state control directive. in favour.
in writing. − this report, which has been included in the roadworthiness package, defines the place of registration of vehicles and introduces the withdrawal and the cancellation of registration certificates, including the possibility for the vehicle owner to cancel the registration of a vehicle so as to be exempted from further liability. therefore i am in favour.
in writing. − on 20 july 2010, the commission adopted policy orientations on road safety. to reach the target announced (i.e. reducing the number of road fatalities by 50 % between 2010 and 2020), the commission proposed amongst other things a two-pronged strategy for safer vehicles: harmonisation/strengthening of eu legislation on roadworthiness tests and on technical roadside inspections (including the extension to powered two-wheelers) and a study on setting up a european electronic platform with a view to harmonising the exchange of vehicle data (type approval, registration, results of inspections, etc.). in favour.
in writing. − the proposal on roadworthiness testing has the aim of further enhancing road safety and ensuring a high level of environmental protection. the proposal is based on setting common eu-wide minimum standards for vehicle checks, with member states free to go further and introduce higher standards. i abstained since standards should be equal in the eu.
in writing. − while improving vehicle and road safety is a major and worthy priority for eu transport policy, parliament's position on vehicle inspections is difficult to support, as several requirements could increase the administrative burden both for vehicle owners and for the competent authorities. several issues, including the mandatory testing of mopeds, should be left to the member states, as national situations and current practices vary widely. the specific risk assessment system proposed by parliament in the proposal on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles, which classifies operators according to the technical condition of their fleet, is also difficult to support, as it will in a sense 'punish' carriers in member states using older vehicles, as these vehicles will receive increased attention from member states' authorities, which may not always be linked to the risks of the technical condition of the vehicles alone. in addition, the ecr group, like the member states in the eu council, doubts whether the instrument chosen should be a regulation it allows less flexibility for member states to apply rules at national level and considers that these issues should be regulated by means of directives.
in writing. − water pollution is one of the main environmental worries expressed by eu citizens. the water framework directive is our key tool for improving the availability and quality of safe and clean water for our society by reducing chemical pollution. i am in favour.
in writing. − this regulation amends two regulations. on the application of state-aid rules, we support the exemption of certain specified categories of aid from the notification requirements in order to ensure more efficiency in enforcement. on the regulation on rail and road transport, and in line with the recommendation from the committee on transport and tourism, we rejected the commission’s proposal to transfer exemptions from a co-decision regulation into a consultation regulation. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour because this own-initiative report calls for a new political approach to the maritime economy, focusing on two basic challenges. the first is the need to ensure that the workforce has the skills needed for the emerging maritime sectors, so that blue growth is synonymous with growth in high employment. the second is to ensure the integrated sustainability of blue growth, so that it will not damage the fragile marine environment.
in writing. − transfer of a business to the employees through the creation of a cooperative is often the best way of ensuring the continuity of an enterprise. this kind of transfer of businesses to employees, in particular with regard to worker cooperatives and worker buy-outs, should be supported by a specific eu budget line that also includes financial instruments. i support small and medium-sized business and i voted in favour.
in writing. − a bioeconomy has the potential to be used to generate economic growth and jobs and to pave the way for more resource-efficient, sustainable and innovative production and consumption patterns.
i would like to congratulate mrs grybauskaitė and, of course, lithuania, on taking up the very important presidency. this half-year will be very responsible for europe. the european union has finally realised that we have problems with internal democracy. so far, we've only taught the rest of the world how to behave. we are voting today on recommendations for hungary to respect minority rights, but there are also problems with majority rights. we have a resolution in our portfolio on the entry of my country latvia into the eurozone, and the majority of latvian citizens are against it. we've been violating minority rights for 20 years by artificially creating minors who are denied the right to vote. but the denial of majority rights is something new. and the latvian finance minister, who is currently visiting the european parliament, said yesterday: "even if a referendum on the introduction of the euro is held in latvia, it will only be advisory and will not change latvia's path towards the eurozone. is this democracy? i wish lithuania success!
in writing. – i wish lithuania productive and successful work while holding the presidency. it will be difficult, since europe still has some problems with fundamental rights, for example the problem of non-citizens in latvia. we hope that lithuania, which is one of latvia’s neighbours, will help us pay more attention to this problem. another problem is that latvia is introducing the euro on 1 january 2014. i do not think that latvia is ready yet, for the following reasons: first, the question of joining the euro area should be addressed via a national referendum, since it is the latvian people who will pay for all the negative consequences; second, the economic crisis in latvia has not been overcome as yet – it has just become a debt crisis – so it will not be at the expense of its reserves that the government will fulfil the strict criteria of the agreement, but at the population’s expense; third, the increase in prices and inflation from 8 % to 15 %, such as spain and italy have experienced, will fall on the shoulders of ordinary people; fourth, introducing the euro so rapidly will lead to business enlargement and create the conditions for financial intervention by major international companies which will negatively affect latvia’s half-dead economy.
in writing. − i supported the resolution; however i disagree with the fact that there are constant attempts to deprive parliament of its budgetary powers.
in writing. − the european parliament majority nevertheless supported the political agreement on the mff 2014-2020 reached at the end of the irish presidency. it is very important that this agreement includes a budgetary flexibility clause which will ensure that unused funds can be carried over to the next year or another payment tranche. it is also important that this seven-year budget will be revised in 2016 to ensure that the eu budget is in line with the political cycle of the eu institutions and, in particular, with the economic situation in europe at that time. the continued work on improving and simplifying the esf own resources system is to be welcomed. the european parliament could vote on the final version of the mff regulation as early as september or october this year.
in writing. − at international level, the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) develops harmonised requirements intended to remove technical barriers to the trade in motor vehicles. the objective of this proposal is to simplify the procedure regarding the voting of unece regulations by the commission on behalf of the union, hence reducing the delay in the adoption of these acts in the framework of unece. the 1958 agreement on type approval of motor vehicles plays a key role in allowing manufacturers to operate a common set of type-approval standards knowing that their products will be recognised by many countries on different continents as being in conformity with their national legislation. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − on 15 may 2013 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf. it concerns the mobilisation of eur 750 000 from the fund, covering technical assistance for the commission. the aim of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring, information and advice for member states on using, following up and evaluating the egf. i am in favour.
in writing. − the draft new regulation offers a number of declarative improvements: olaf will be given the power to request assistance from the member states’ authorities in carrying out its investigations; upon request, the member states’ authorities will have to inform olaf of the actions taken following findings in olaf’s investigations; procedural guarantees and the protection of fundamental rights will be enhanced. the draft text is a weak compromise. what is more, i have encountered bureaucratic and unprofessional work by olaf and therefore i voted against.
in writing. − undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities are investment funds that have been established in accordance with a directive adopted in 1985. once registered in one eu country, a fund can be freely marketed across the eu. it is necessary to revise the directive. i am in favour.
in writing. − the eu emission trading system is one of the pillars of our climate policy. backloading is only a short-term measure, which should not be seen as a solution to the current imbalances but rather as an option that ensures the stability of the eu emission trading system until the necessary long-term structural measures are adopted. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european parliament supported the proposal to 'freeze' the auctioning of co2 emission credits to encourage companies to invest in more environmentally friendly production technologies that would produce less carbon pollution and to promote the value of emission credits. the european parliament voted today to support the european commission's plan to adjust the auctioning schedule for allowances in case of emergency. the european commission will only be able to take such a decision once for 900 million allowances for the period 2013-2020. a broader reform of the carbon trading system should also be urgently needed to ensure that the system operates in accordance with its objectives.
in writing. − the commission proposal comes in response to recent crises such as the bird flu pandemic in 2009, the volcanic ash cloud in 2010 and the e. coli bacteria outbreak in 2011, with the aim of strengthening measures to protect populations by tackling more efficiently and effectively such cross-border threats to health. the agreement to establish a legal basis for the coordination of vaccine procurement across the eu is a crucial achievement. this will provide more equitable access to vaccines at fairer prices – a development particularly welcome for smaller member states, such as latvia which could not afford the exorbitant prices charged during recent pandemics. i voted in favour.
in writing. − since this is a first step towards reducing the fragmentation of the internal market in indirect taxation, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the introduction of the euro in latvia marks the end of a significant phase in the country's return to europe. it has been a journey of more than 20 years, starting with the restoration of independence and continuing with accession to the european union and nato. with the introduction of the euro, the objectives of government will become less visible, but no less important. from now on, all the powers of the government must be directed to the development of the country and the welfare of the people. improvements in education and justice systems and lower energy prices are needed to increase the well-being of the population. it is now safe to say that the foundations of latvia's economy are stable. they must be built on to increase the well-being of the people.
in writing. − the resolution supports the introduction of the euro in latvia on 1 january 2014. it notes that latvia was severely hit by the global financial crisis, in terms of poverty, unemployment and demographic development. it is a lie to say that latvia has met the criteria as a result of the resolute and ceaseless efforts of the latvian government and people. the introduction of the euro in latvia may lead to catastrophic consequences. i am categorically against the introduction of the euro without a referendum.
in writing. − the european parliament approved by a very large majority a resolution on the introduction of the euro in latvia on 1 january 2014, joining the positive assessment of the european commission and the european central bank on latvia's readiness to become the 18th member of the euro area. this is a very important step towards deeper integration of latvia into europe, ensuring greater economic and political security. latvia and its people have made a significant effort to overcome the financial and economic crisis, becoming the fastest growing economy in the eu and the base country for the calculation of the maastricht criteria. however, for growth and competitiveness to be truly sustainable, the reforms that have been initiated need to be seriously worked on in the long term.
in writing. − the report on the introduction of the euro in latvia is generally welcome. the eu's external relations policy is based on the principles of the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. a number of important tasks are still to be carried out, some of which are also mentioned in the report. the resolution of the financial crisis through the 'shake-up' required to meet the euro adoption criteria has led to a significant increase in unemployment, poverty and social inequality in latvia. the significant inflows of money from third countries, in particular from russia, in the form of non-resident deposits, pose significant financial risks and may threaten the state's solvency via the deposit guarantee scheme. in connection with the emigration of people and the decline in the birth rate, the population of latvia continues to decline, creating serious threats to the existence of the latvian nation in the future. these are all problems that the introduction of the euro does not solve by itself. the euro area accession does not eliminate the geopolitical risks posed by excessive inflows of investment from third countries into latvia, especially if these investments take the form of demand deposits that can be withdrawn quickly, creating financial shocks, or are linked to money laundering operations. it is a pity that the seriousness of this issue is not understood by members from other political groups. although the groups agreed in advance on the ecr's proposal to indicate the geopolitical, rather than the purely financial, dimension of the risk of non-resident deposits, this amendment was rejected in the final vote.
in writing. − i agree with the recent adoption by the commission of a common eu definition for serious injuries on road accidents. consequently all stakeholders and institutions are urged to set up a global strategy on road injuries that includes: a 40 % reduction target in serious injuries over the period 2014-2020 without delay; special protection measures for the most vulnerable road users; improving first aid and emergency services; and including post-accident care and long-term rehabilitation in road safety strategy. in favour.
in writing. − it is known that the process of drafting and adopting the fundamental law of hungary lacked the transparency, openness, inclusiveness and, ultimately, the consensual basis that could be expected in a modern democratic constituent process, thus weakening the legitimacy of the fundamental law itself. in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − the european solidarity fund is an effective and efficient instrument in facing up to immediate damage due to natural disasters. it is an instrument giving a direct response by the eu to urgent needs and support for citizens and one that i support.
in writing. − the report identifies key reform principles ensuring depositors and consumers no longer pay for the excessive risks taken by banks with their money. people must be able to access their bank accounts and make payments even when banks fail. real reform must ultimately ensure that the costs of risky trading are not borne by retail customers and depositors. ultimately, when bankers behave badly they should be personally held to account. i totally support the report and i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report notes improvements which took place during the year 2011, but also highlights the degree to which better cooperation and a standardised approach are needed among member states in fraud reporting. at the same time, it welcomes the work underway on a directive on the fight against fraud to the eu’s financial interests by means of criminal law. in favour.
in writing. − this report follows up on the commission’s road map to an integrated internal control framework. according to the report, more work still needs to be done in order to improve the control framework in the european union. both the commission and the member states must assume their responsibility in the context of shared management: the ultimate responsibility for eu budget implementation lies with the commission, whereas 80 % of the eu budget is spent by, and in, the member states. i abstained.
in writing. − i do not think that it is necessary to disburse financial assistance to georgia with this regulation. i disagree that the agreement is a good agreement from an institutional perspective, since i believe that it does not respect the powers of parliament.
in writing. − the directive aims at combating large-scale attacks against information systems and repeals the current council framework decision. it penalises the production, sale, procurement for use, import, distribution or otherwise making available of devices/tools used for committing the offences and includes aggravating circumstances. it introduces the new criminal offence of ‘illegal interception’ and introduces measures to improve european criminal justice cooperation. in favour.
in writing. − it is criminal that the collection was carried out by the national security agency and that the data collected included emails, videos, chat, photos, voice messages, stored data, voip, logins, video conferencing and imessages. the question now is how to proceed and what can be done. legally the room for manoeuvre is very limited, as the us as a sovereign state can legislate as it sees appropriate and even in the eu these issues touch upon national security, where the eu has no legislative powers. some minor issues can be addressed through the revision of the data protection package. in favour.
in writing. − i totally agree with the main points, as follows: the names of the candidates selected to stand for election to the european parliament should be made public at least eight weeks before the start of polling; parties should nominate their candidates and the candidates for the commission presidency sufficiently well in advance and they should mount a significant europe-wide campaign that concentrates on european issues; national political parties should include on their lists of candidates eu citizens of other eu countries residing in their member state; and, lastly, no official result is to be published in any member state until after close of polling in the member state whose electors are the last to vote on sunday, 25 may 2014.
in writing. − this resolution calls for the implementation and strengthening of the common position to prevent arms exports. it is necessary to wait for catherine ashton’s statement.
in writing. − the main objective of this agreement is to update the existing gats rules, which were negotiated more than 20 years ago. i think that opening negotiations is necessary. in favour.
in writing. − this is a reaction to a decision by the norwegian government to raise tariffs on certain agricultural products to extremely high levels. even though these measures do not go against norway’s wto commitments, it runs against the spirit of a bilateral agreement on trade in agricultural products between the eu and norway. in favour.
in writing. − unleashing the single market through the services directive and a digital single market could add eur 800 billion to the eu economy, which is the equivalent of almost eur 4 200 per household. it is necessary to push the commission to commit to the development of the digital single market as an overarching political priority and to come forward with a holistic approach and an ambitious strategy encompassing both legislative and political initiatives in order to take into account new and upcoming developments, making the digital single market a reality on the ground. in favour.
in writing. − care services are key to public health and to a functioning society. austerity policies and high levels of unemployment are placing increased pressure on care services, hitting the most vulnerable the hardest. carers are already overworked, underpaid and underappreciated, and the crisis is only making that worse. informal carers in particular – those caring for family members or friends – are hidden sufferers from the crisis. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − only interoperability of platforms can ensure diversity of opinion and of the services on offer, as well as freedom of information. at the same time all media forms, whether linear or non linear, must respect the rules protecting children and human dignity, promoting cultural diversity, ensuring transparency, media quality, equality of opportunities, fair competition, and safeguarding media pluralism. in favour.
in writing. − parliament welcomes the fact that the council could eventually agree on a revision without any offsetting of the 2013 ceilings for payments by the required eur 374 million. it considers that, given the limited amount concerned and the current shortage of payment appropriations in the 2013 budget, this is the proper way to fulfil the obligation that the member states took out when signing the accession treaty. in favour.
in writing. − this revision is of a purely technical nature, which is simply the consequence of the unanimous agreement on the treaty concerning the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union as the 28th member state of the union. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the s&d group aims at developing an alternative model geared towards growth, jobs and social justice in europe, the reduction of economic instability and insecurity, and the closing of the democratic deficit in order to put the interests and the voice of citizens at the heart of policy-making. an efficient and appropriately funded package for the fight against youth unemployment remains the top priority, alongside real flexibility fully to use promised funding from the european budget. therefore i supported the resolution.
in writing. − parliament expresses its solidarity with the egyptian people in this critical period of transition towards democracy, offers its sincere condolences to the families of the victims, and demands that those responsible be brought to justice. it calls on the egyptian government to ensure the security of all citizens, regardless of their political views and affiliation and their confession, to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to protect freedom of association and expression, and to respect and fulfil its international obligations. however, we need to remember what parliament was doing two years ago. today we are reaping the fruits of unwise and irresponsible policy. i abstained.
mr president, this is a resolution regarding the situation in djibouti; my colleagues in the european parliament have done great work on it. i would just like to add the reasons why there is no democracy today in djibouti. president guelleh is almost a dictator; the country depends on external help for 87 % of its needs. at the same time there is a high level of crime and corruption in djibouti. i appeal to the european parliament not only to recommend some actions, but to use all possible methods, including financial ones, in order to change this tragic situation in djibouti today.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i do not think the european union should be like a mother who is constantly touching her children to make sure that nothing bad happens to them. but if we look at what happened in the financial crisis, what have we learned? we've learned that there's something wrong with the housing market. i think this is a case where we as european union legislators need to do a little bit of work to make things a little bit better. because what happened was that too many people borrowed too much money on too bad terms that they couldn't pay back. this directive will oblige banks to better inform their customers, including about all the risks they take, so that we do not have this problem on a mass scale in the future. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, first of all i would like to thank our rapporteur, mr díaz de mera, for our fruitful cooperation along this ‘very long road’, as it was referred to, along which we have travelled for two and a half years, and for the personal efforts of mr díaz de mera in maintaining the position of parliament, as adopted in the vote in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. unfortunately, the results of the negotiations are not very positive from the point of view of my group, the greens/efa group. on the one hand, there is progress on visa reciprocity. you all remember that the original amendment, which was proposed by our respected colleague alexander alvaro – whom i a wish good recovery – and supported by our group and a number of other shadows and colleagues here in this room, was on almost automatic reintroduction of visas for the nationals of the third country that introduced, reintroduced or maintained visa requirement for nationals of a member state. it was not fully supported. however, the council, as you know, is ready to agree a two-stage mechanism where, in the end, the commission would be obliged to ensure reciprocity. we understand your dissatisfaction, commissioner barnier, but i have to say that the progress is there. on the other hand, we are completely disappointed with the deal concerning the temporary suspension of visa waiver. in the greens/efa group, we do not agree that the increase in the number of asylum applications could be a criterion for suspension. the nationals of a third country on a positive list should not be punished for the attempts of the nationals of the same country to use the individual right to asylum without a good reason. moreover, by not supporting the given criteria for suspension, we are certain that it must not go through an implementing act, as colleagues felt. if permanent restoration of visas goes thorough codecision, parliament should also be able to block a temporary one. thus, only a delegated act would ensure that its elementary prerogatives are duly protected. taking all this into account, my group cannot support the first reading agreement.
in writing. − in the context of aligning the regulation to the new rules of the tfeu, the commission has prepared a good draft proposal classifying the powers currently conferred on the commission by that regulation into measures of a delegated nature and measures of a implementing nature. that, in my view, will enhance cooperation between the commission and parliament. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − to ensure the same rights regarding choice of law for different forms of legal unions and to recognise cross-border effects without derogatory measures, in line with the council conclusions on fundamental rights and rule of law. this recommendation is not obligatory, and therefore the report resembles a contemplation and does not have a real impact. i abstained.
in writing. − it is clear that the competent authorities should not interpret the public policy exception in a way that is contrary to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and in particular article 21 thereof, which prohibits all forms of discrimination. to make it clear it is necessary to specify conclusions, but in principle, i am in favour.
in writing. − mr cramer’s report highlights the need to align research and innovation better with eu transport policy. i agree that it is necessary to understand the importance of optimising transport flows and logistic chains as well as the need to encourage end-user behaviour-change when it comes to use of public transport. fair prices and integrated ticketing are identified as key factors for the transport sector’s competitiveness. growth and job creation are also highlighted, with emphasis being given to the social dimension. new technologies should focus on multimodality, passenger comfort and real-time information. it is also necessary to aspire to affordable prices for passengers. i supported the report.
in writing. − clear common rules on access to a lawyer represent another step on the path towards making protection of fundamental rights a reality across the european union. truly, it gives a chance for all investigations to be conducted without prejudice and with less mistakes. i am in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive because i believe that banks should do much more to inform potential mortgage borrowers about the various risks. banks also need to assess their customers' solvency and ability to repay their loans more carefully. for most families, buying a home is the biggest investment of their lives, and that is why this decision must be made very carefully. sadly, because of bad advice, a considerable number of families throughout europe have been forced to sell their homes for only a fraction of what they paid for them, leaving money in the bank. the independent advisory board provided for in this directive is therefore essential before such a decision is taken. i hope that the last five years have also been a good lesson for the banking sector not to repeat the mistakes made.
in writing. − this directive is the first piece of european legislation in the field of mortgages and the first bill of the financial reform focused on a retail banking product. mortgages are the most important financial commitment in the life of european families; the mortgage market represents more than the 52 % of the euʼs gdp. the agreement reached with the council will help to reactivate the economy of many member states while avoiding irresponsible mortgage lending and borrowing being at the roots of the next crisis. i think that this directive may regulate rules that will not allow creditors to lend mortgages unreasonably.
in writing. − under the new rules aimed at tackling insider dealing and market manipulation the same requirements will be imposed on all the member states, which should ensure uniform market conditions and protection for investors in the eu. in my view, that will allow all potential investors to see that their assets are protected. in favour.
in writing. − the adoption of the basic regulation will have a direct impact on the use of technical measures in the baltic sea, the belts and the sound and it will make significant changes to the regulation. proposing such modifications at the current stage carries the risk that these modifications will not be in compliance with the provisions of the basic regulation. therefore i did not support the report.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament resolution on 'measures to ensure the functioning of the internal energy market' because it states that individual member states are 'energy islands' still completely isolated from the european gas and electricity networks. the resolution also stresses that these member states continue to pay higher prices for energy resources due to their isolation. i believe that with this resolution the european parliament is clearly expressing its support for ending the isolation of the baltic states from the common gas and electricity network in europe. the baltic states now need to agree on joint infrastructure projects.
in writing. − i am not sure that more europe in energy will result in security of supply, lower energy costs for consumers and industry, and a more sustainable economy. must member states implement in full what they have signed up to? it is not true, since latviaʼs legislation in this area works only in the interests of speculators and rascals. i voted against.
in writing. - the report is certainly to be welcomed. the eu's single energy market is still far from being implemented, albeit from the point of view of maintaining the so-called 'energy island'. and the expression of parliament's position is an important political step to encourage member states to take a more active role in the implementation of eu legislation. the report rightly highlights that several eu countries remain completely isolated from european gas and electricity markets and continue to pay higher prices for energy resources, thus reducing their competitiveness. these member states, including latvia, will not be able to meet the european council's commitment to ensure that no member state is isolated from eu networks by 2015. the report also welcomes the idea of a single gas purchasing agency at eu level to counterbalance the monopoly position of certain external suppliers, and the reference to the principle of reciprocity in eu relations with third country suppliers. it is important to call on the member states and the commission to review all gas supply contracts based on outdated pricing mechanisms, in particular the oil indexation principle. it is essential to propose that the commission use its powers of state aid control to encourage member states to develop cross-border infrastructure and, where necessary, to make the granting of state aid conditional on the fulfilment of the obligations of the member state concerned in relation to the financing and construction of cross-border infrastructure.
in writing. − the s&d group supports all the necessary and efficient measures to be taken in order to make sure that the europe 2020 targets can be achieved and considers that energy efficiency measures via cohesion policy represent the greatest potential for this target. i am confident that declarations on cohesion only will not give a result. i voted in favour.
in writing. − although there are some examples of successful inter-regional cooperation, the problems facing the adriatic area as a whole have yet to be addressed in an effective manner. the commission recently adopted a communication putting forward a maritime strategy for the adriatic and ionian seas, one of the four pillars of which covers action to promote sustainable fishing. i think that this should be used as a basis for introducing an eu macro-regional strategy for the adriatic-ionian sea basin as well, and that the measures relating to the fisheries and aquaculture sector should take account of the sea basin’s specificities, including its specific geophysical features, with a relatively shallow, sandy seabed, and its lagoons, islands and coastal areas. i am sure that it is accordingly necessary to adopt the related action plan at the earliest opportunity. in favour.
in writing. − i am deeply confident that multilingualism and interpretation are essential for parliament to be transparent to the public, and for its legislators to work on highly technical legislative information in their own language and that of the people in their member state. efficiency and cost-effectiveness are extremely important, but these aspects must not erode the availability of live and accessible information in the language of listeners/viewers across the eu. consideration of these users and their needs is an important issue. i am in favour.
in writing. − i had acquainted myself with the report and was surprised that it consists just of appeals and nothing specific. it seems that the rapporteur took an unprofessional approach towards it. i voted against.
in writing. − since parliament is recommending that luigi berlinguer be appointed to the panel, i studied his biography thoroughly and decided to support him. i hope he will bring maximum benefit. in favour.
in writing. i agree with josé manuel barroso, president of the european commission, that member states cannot stop at the reforms they have already undertaken. the work started must be continued, as economic growth in the euro area remains unacceptably weak. if member states do not pursue reforms, this can truly be called a lost decade. it is important to realise that the world is changing and the european union must be able to keep up with it. we see that the strongest economic growth right now is in the nordic countries that are strictly fiscal disciplined and are making the necessary reforms to bring spending into line with revenue. of course, many may not like to see the baltic states, and latvia in particular, cited as an example of a government and people who have selflessly done a tremendous job of restoring stable and sustainable economic growth. however, the countries of southern europe also have to face the reality that they will have to make a series of unpleasant decisions in order to maintain a high standard of living in the future. i am pleased that we are seeing economic growth in the euro area, and i hope that in a year's time we will be talking about much better economic growth and employment.
in writing. − promoting all the languages of the union as well as those that are endangered is a vital challenge that europe must face for a true future promoting its richness and gathering new clients around its heritage among the young generation. it is also necessary to make the link between promotion of languages and free will, and culture should not be imposed by force. i am in favour.
in writing. − the report requests that the commission grant parliament the formal right to hear the candidate selected for the post of the european environment agencyʼs executive director prior to his or her appointment. in favour.
in writing. − i am confident that the council should agree to release now a first tranche of extra payment appropriations of eur 7.3 billion. the commission should also present in early autumn a further draft amending budget 2013 to avoid any shortfall in payment appropriations by the end of 2013. the council is committed politically to decide on this new amending budget without delay. i am in favour.
in writing. − the execution of the 2012 budget led to a historically low surplus of eur 1.023 billion to be entered in the 2013 budget. the surplus is the sum of the underspend in 2012 (eur 0.24 billion), extra income received in 2012 (eur 0.71 billion) and exchange rate differences (eur 0.05 billion). introducing changes is necessary of course; however, this is to define the main reasons for such unprofessional work. i am in favour.
in writing. − the proposed reinforcements (20 additional posts for the global navigation satellite system, 15 posts for the education, audiovisual and culture executive agency, 1 advocate general and 7 staff members for the court of justice) are presented as budget neutral since they are intended to be fully offset by corresponding reductions in the commissionʼs section of the budget, and for the court of justice by available appropriations within its own section. i think that the current budget is balanced at the expenses of the own resources, therefore i am in favour.
in writing. − the report gives the green light to mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in croatia, slovenia and austria for a total amount of eur 14.6 million in commitments and payments. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted against this proposal to limit the production of traditional biofuels and to switch to new biofuel production from renewable resources. i support the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but i believe that this proposal will place a new burden on european and latvian farmers, whose interests i have represented in the european parliament. we must remember that the european union is a leader in reducing various forms of pollution, but we must also think about our people who need jobs and we must also think about creating new jobs. i therefore call on the european commission and the members of the environment committee of the parliament to take a more balanced stance in the future negotiations and to take into account that the cap reform will require a number of new requirements for european farmers in the coming years.
in writing. − i supported the text approved by parliament for this draft law because i believe that the european union should not change the rules of the game during the game with regard to biofuel production targets. the decisions have to take into account the investments already made in biofuel plants. if the targets set by the european union itself are reduced too much, investments in many first-generation biofuel plants will have been in vain. therefore, the target reduction had to be set in line with the existing situation and the planned investments in biofuel plants, i.e. it could in no case be lower than the capacity of existing and planned plants. by adopting the wording of this bill, the european parliament has demonstrated its commitment to the business environment in the european union.
in writing. − the eu biofuels policy should prevent the unintended promotion of polluting biofuels as well as the global distortion of crop prices that fuels poverty while at the same time protecting existing investments. i am sure that the market in innovative and less polluting biofuels which do not compete with food crops for land should develop.
in writing. − member states are to collect data needed for research in order to quantify the impact of measures taken regarding eel stocks, find mitigation measures and recommend management targets.
in writing. − improving the competitiveness of the eu by streamlining electronic customs procedures and decreasing unnecessary administrative burdens on european companies. this will not improve the situation as a whole. it is necessary to achieve changes in the customs codes of countries bordering on the eu. i voted in favour.
in writing. − it has been agreed that there shall be a network for collecting accountancy data on the income and business operation of agricultural holdings in the eu. a system of data protection also needs to be developed, otherwise all this plan will turn into uncontrollable statistics. i abstained.
in writing. − the aim is to align the implementing powers of the commission for these directives with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, in particular in order to promptly adapt or update non-essential elements to developments in international standards (e.g. codex alimentarius) or technical progress. such arrangements, in my view, will allow a timely response on issues of food safety. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the conclusion of these agreements represents an encouraging step forward and a strong signal from the european union. it promotes good governance, security and stability, sustainable development and poverty alleviation. i voted in favour.
in writing. − it is of the utmost importance during this period of crisis that the eu continues to inspire youth by providing more opportunities in education and training, by supporting an innovative and entrepreneurial spirit, by funding youth and education programmes and employment initiatives, and by believing that this has a multiplying effect on growth in europe. i voted in favour.
in writing. − youth unemployment is one of the biggest challenges facing europe today. we need a response to match this challenge. that the unemployment rate for young people is one of biggest problems facing europe today is well known. thanks to the efforts of our group, this report makes it clear that member states and the commission need to provide far more money to fight youth unemployment. i agree with the following: 1) those countries which do not yet have a youth guarantee should be encouraged to have one; 2) we cannot deny that there is a link between austerity and unemployment levels and we are happy that this report acknowledges that fact; 3) internships should be properly paid, and should not be used to replace existing workforces. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − the main idea of the report is that economic growth and employment in europe depend solely on the implementation of the services directive, and that the current economic crisis could be solved if the member states would just implement the directive correctly. such wording does not satisfy me, therefore i abstained.
in writing. − although, the rapporteur included in the final text references related to the promotion through the future eu-malaysia partnership and cooperation agreement of specific values promoted by our political group, like social standards and labour conditions, anticorruption, trafficking of persons and non-proliferation, a lot has been left out of the report. notwithstanding that, i voted in favour of finalisation of negotiations to enhance the solution of problems in malaysia.
in writing. – any reason is used to get an opportunity for direct intervention in syria. today, the chemical weapons were figured out. many years ago i also heard about nuclear and chemical weapons in iraq. then us forces invaded iraq and hanged the president. but weapons were not found! and no one apologised. i am categorically against the ‘export’ of democracy; i am against the arming of islamists in syria, against impudence and cynicism. therefore i will not support the nonsense laid out in the resolution. only peaceful measures can achieve civil peace in syria. the rest is aggression, violation and impudent lies.
madam president, speaking on russia’s politics with respect to armenia, georgia, moldova and ukraine, there is no doubt that pressure is being exercised. but is the european union doing charity work with respect to these countries? yes – starting from yesterday russia suspended imports of moldovan wines and brandy. but i am sure that the european union will not urgently start importing wine from moldova. the eu policy with respect to a number of eastern european countries is one of prevention of own production. my country, latvia, signed a contract of association with the european union in 1995 and already in 2004 we had already lost economic independence. true, in 2004 there was an official marriage with the eu but this marriage did not become equal. the proof is that the latvian peasants still do not receive worthy compensation. and people in ukraine, moldova and other eastern european partnership countries learn lessons from these stories and these lessons show that the free trade agreement with the eu assumes capitulation of local producers in the interests of all the eu member states.
i have read the report on your work very carefully, mr diamandouros, and i want to say thank you very much. but i can tell you for a fact that there is one big job you haven't finished. on 11 march 2004, the european parliament adopted resolution no 50111 on the deprivation of citizenship of 350 000 people in latvia, i.e. 15% of the latvian population. you get a lot of complaints and signals about this illegal. this deep problem is not solved today. don't you think that's unfair, mr diamandouros? is that pandora's box that no one wants to open today? thank you for your attention.
in writing. − i do not think that the ombudsman fulfilled his responsibilities completely, since he never paid attention to lawlessness towards non-citizens in latvia. i abstained.
in writing. − the eurozone has stagnated, the crisis is felt most strongly in the southern european countries, but it threatens the future of not only the eurozone but also the european union. the european union's response is therefore to create a banking union. the banking union comprises four parts: general rules for all eu banks, bank rescue rules and a fund, a deposit guarantee scheme and, finally, a banking supervision scheme. regulation conferring specific tasks on the european central bank concerning the policy on the supervision of credit institutions. the european central bank will directly supervise some 150 euro area banks, with a market share of around 80%, other credit institutions will be supervised through national supervisors, and it will have the power to issue and revoke the licences of credit institutions, participate in the supervision of large financial conglomerates, assess mergers of credit institutions and impose higher liquidity, capital adequacy and collateral requirements in the country concerned. the introduction of this regulation will give latvians a sense of security for their money in the bank, making it easier and cheaper to borrow, which is why i supported this regulation.
mr president, i voted against this motion for a resolution. although in the title the pressure exercised by russia is condemned, it has to be amended because the european parliament resolution is also a kind of pressure. people in the countries of the eastern partnership know all the pro- and contra-arguments on whether to join or not to join one or another treaty, and you should not underestimate them. when the eastern partnership programme was launched, we heard a number of declarations that it was not to realise the design of a new wall in europe, which was called by brzezinski the baltic and black sea arch. but now we see the proof that just this scenario is taking place. although the resolution condemns the zero-sum game approach as a paradigm of the european union and russia’s relations, we see the same approach in this resolution ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. i believe that the restrictions adopted today are only an incomplete step in the right direction. smoking causes about 700 000 premature deaths in the european union each year. statistics show that more than 10 million people in the member states suffer from various smoking-related diseases. these figures are shocking, and that is why i supported the european commission's proposal to amend the tobacco products directive. in today's vote i supported the amendments tabled by my colleagues in the environment committee, which aim to strictly limit the spread of smoking, to ban menthol and other flavoured cigarettes and to cover as large a proportion of cigarette smokers as possible with informative reports on smoking-related diseases. i have no illusions that these stricter rules will reduce the number of smokers in europe, but that is not the aim. they focus on preventive measures that reduce the attractiveness of smoking and discourage young people from smoking early. statistics show that 70 percent of smokers start smoking before the age of 18. this is why it is a public duty to inform adolescents and children about the harmful effects of smoking on their health. for those who are concerned about the economic importance of the tobacco industry and the jobs at stake, i invite you to ask yourself: 'do you want your child to start smoking?' i'm sure no one wants that.
in writing. − i totally agree with parliament giving consent to the draft council decision on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system between the eu and ukraine. it will bring both sides closer. in favour.
in writing. − this is the fifth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and it refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 164 930 from the european gobalisation fund for italy concerning 529 redundancies at anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l., italian it companies. it is a pity that latvia is not using the fund. i am in favour.
in writing. − this is the sixth application to be examined under the 2013 budget and it refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 594 672 for italy concerning 1 030 redundancies at de tomaso automobili s.p.a., an italian automobile manufacturer. it is a pity that the latvian government has not found an opportunity to use the fund. in favour.
in writing. − i believe that corruption in private and public sectors means inequality and discrimination remain when civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights should be equally implemented. corruption cases and human rights violations include abuse of power, lack of accountability and different types of discrimination. we know that corruption undermines economic development. i want to stress the need to align domestic and foreign policies in order for the eu to be more trustworthy. when it comes to the eu budget and foreign policy, a high level of accountability and transparency of state budgets is required. in favour.
in writing. − as is known, in order to encourage a more strategic approach to decision-making, the euʼs 2010 budget included a proposal from parliament for a pilot project to set up an inter-institutional system identifying long-term trends in major policy issues facing the eu, resulting in the european strategy and policy analysis system (espas). following completion of the pilot project, it was agreed in the 2012 budget to authorise the project to move into the next phase, as a preparatory action for the three years 2012 to 2014. although the report welcomes the outcome so far and recommends exploring more in detail the design of specific mechanisms for promoting closer working cooperation between the research departments of the various eu institutions and bodies, i abstained, since the report resembles a declaration rather than a report for reportʼs sake.
in writing. − the brussels i regulation lays down rules governing the jurisdiction of courts in civil and commercial matters. whilst the brussels i regulation is of utmost importance for citizens and provides clear rules on access to justice, these rules are to be redrafted to address also particular concerns of workers. i am in favour.
in writing. − ensuring that not only the maritime labour convention but also the higher eu standards apply to seafarers, and that ships have a procedure on board to enable seafarers to make a complaint about breaches of eu legislation, is necessary. such complaints must be handled fairly, effectively and promptly. in addition each member state must establish effective inspection and enforcement of maritime labour conditions to ensure that the working and living conditions for seafarers on ships flying its flag meet international standards. i am in favour.
in writing. − all the suggestions in the report are no more than pre-election pr. i am against resolutions aimed at an infringement of the rights of smokers. i voted against.
in writing. − the new protocol fully respects the common fisheries policy reform in terms of both environmental and financial sustainability, and human rights. the utilisation rate is 100 % for tuna and well over 50 % for black hake. shipownersʼ fees have been reduced. as for cephalopods/octopus, mauritania claims that it can still fully exploit this fishery. this is also supported by scientific evidence. however, mauritania is willing to experiment with a new management model. a revision clause has therefore been introduced, taking into account the status of the stocks. in addition the ‘by-catchʼ of cephalopods/octopus has increased from 4 % to 8 %. the pelagic fleet (mostly polish, dutch and baltic vessels) has already started fishing and is satisfied with the catches. concerning possibilities for landing fish in europe, since there are no processing facilities for the demersal industry and fresh pelagics in the port of nouadhibou (mauritania), catches are landed and re-embarked for further processing in europe, where the pelagic industry has a logistics base or, if this corresponds to the industryʼs strategy, shipped directly by lorries to europe. this should lead to an increase in at-port activities. i am in favour.
in writing. − i agree that the prevention of gender-biased sex selection requires a major commitment by the commission, member states, civil society and international agencies, and will have to be regarded as a crime and a severe violation of human rights. member states should seek to prohibit the practice of sex-selection. there is an urgent need for scientific examination of the root causes, guidelines have to be established for medical staff, supportive measures and education for girls and women have to be put in place, as well as healthcare, education and work access for women without spousal authorisation. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i think that eu regions could be hit twice over with the financial crisis in their countries and budgetary restraints at eu level. in order to safeguard opportunities for future growth we support all possible flexibility in the co-financing of programmes and policies. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in the short term, the proposed strategy recognises the importance of the fisheries partnership agreement with kiribati for the success of the eu distant water fleet but questions the viability of the other fisheries partnership agreements in the western pacific which have been signed but not implemented. in the medium-to-long term, the report explicitly calls for illegal fishing to be combatted, arguing that the framework should be based on the vessel day scheme as opposed to the current eu fisheries partnership agreement criterion of a reference tonnage, with the caveat that measures are adopted to ensure the transparency of the vessel day scheme. i agree with the rapporteur and i voted in favour.
in writing. − due to their geographical features, maritime jurisdictions in the mediterranean and black seas are particularly complex. the number of states and their relative positions create new boundaries that impact on coastal states’ and third countries’ access to use of the living resources. this own-initiative report seeks to cover all these aspects by encouraging, for instance, the establishment of maritime zones, in particular exclusive zones and protected maritime areas, which will not only improve fisheries conservation and management beyond territorial waters but will also promote sustainable fisheries resources, facilitate the control of and fight against illegal unreported and unregulated fishing, as well as improving marine management within these basins. in favour.
for the ecr group the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information available to it. i remember, as a government minister in the late 1990s, being in a situation where latvian exports to russia were suddenly stopped. we remember how estonia also suffered in this trade when it was allowed to move the monument. and even now, with russia's accession to the world trade organization, we are tolerating discriminatory conditions against the european union's member states in both energy and transport. so i think that in this case, everyone in this room is clear why russia allows this situation to be done to lithuania. because russia considers the former soviet union as its territory and works on the principle of 'shall and will', expecting that one member state will not be represented by the whole of the european union. and here is our political division, whether we allow lithuania, which has allowed itself to be a little bit pushy on the gas issue against russia, to be punished, lithuania, which is the presidency of the european union. if we leave lithuania alone, what will the world think if the european union cannot defend its presidency in such a situation? i agree with my colleague on the political side. thank you.
answer to the blue card question. i'm not going to do it. i would like to say that the ecr group is generally very much in favour of a single european union single market, and these are the principles we stand for, and we see that the european union can develop a genuine single market even further. and this is against the common market of the european union. this is discrimination against the european union market, so i do not see any contradiction in our position here, and we will always defend this situation regardless of what we think about the development of a federal european union, which we are sceptical about. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i want to thank the rapporteur, mr harbour, for a very important job. taking into account the various resolutions in the european parliament, it is safe to say that this resolution needs to be adopted in order to systematise the situation with the water transport manufacturers. however, i would draw your attention to the fact that action must be taken to prevent large manufacturers from monopolising and to allow small firms to participate in the production of water transport and its engines. i am confident that this resolution will send a clear and strong signal that we need to bring order to this sector. thank you for your attention.
in writing. – the position of parliament and the commission here is very interesting. first they supported the militants, through various schemes and with funds. they armed them and sent them to wage war. then, when the adventure failed, as had happened in libya and egypt, they started talking about chemical weapons. now, when civil war has caused hundreds of thousands of refugees, they are ready to pay for that as well. but why has latvia to pay for such an adventure? those who made the decision to support militants should be held responsible for the results of military activities, including the care of refugees. to make it crystal clear: all the humanitarian operations should be entrusted to those eu officials who allowed military activities in syria. i am categorically against funding military adventures!
in writing. − it is known that the agreement provides for close parliamentary monitoring of the performance of the european central bank’s supervisory tasks, through regular exchanges of views with the relevant parliamentary committee, oral discussions behind closed doors with the bureau of the same committee and, ultimately, better access to information, including the non-confidential parts of the minutes of the supervisory board. it is good that the agreement provides for parliamentary control over the procedure for selecting the chair of the supervisory board. i voted in favour.
in writing. − following croatia’s accession to the european union, parliament decided to change the numerical strength of delegations. i think that numerical strength should correspond to eu priorities, but overall i am in favour.
in writing. − i have been surprised by the strong consensus in the committee on budgetary control on this matter. the council is unique in withholding information which could inform the budget discharge procedure. other institutions and bodies co-operate extensively in providing information potentially needed for a full picture of issues linked to the execution of the budget for the previous financial year, thus enabling parliament to take informed decisions. i voted in favour.
in writing. − a strengthened environmental impact assessment directive will benefit the environment, human health and the economy through more efficient, simplified procedures, and will provide a level playing field for projects and economic activities.
in writing. − i support the introduction of stricter emission levels and the updating of construction requirements, thereby increasing legal certainty, which is to the benefit of manufacturers and consumers. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the new recreational craft and watercraft directive is certainly welcome, as it will introduce a uniform, clear and understandable regulation for the recreational craft sector, which is home to over 30 000 european companies. the directive will create a single market for the sector, firstly for manufacturers of watercraft and engines, so that recreational craft can be registered and certified easily in the common market and market fragmentation can be reduced. this draft directive has indeed been a long and slow process since the commission's proposal was published in the summer of 2011. in the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, which i was responsible for, we focused more on the safety requirements for watercraft and on the future inclusion of hybrid marine engines and other innovative technologies in the directive. the new directive will improve the environmental performance of recreational craft and motorcycles by setting stricter limits on the emission levels of exhaust gases from marine engines. the alignment of these requirements with the us market is positive as it will make it easier for manufacturers to operate in a global market with the same standards. the directive is sufficiently balanced from the point of view of the interests of producers. the current noise emission limit values are maintained, as further reductions would require a significant modification of the engines. a transitional period of three years is also provided for in the area of exhaust emission limits for all engine manufacturers, as well as an additional transitional period of three years for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. − this report concerns the revision of directive 2005/36/ec and aims to simplify and clarify the recognition of professional qualifications throughout europe. i hope it is the beginning of a fight against bureaucracy.
in writing. − taking into account the difficult geographical location of armenia, the simplified visa regime has the potential to lend fresh impetus to cooperation, chiefly through citizens’ mobility, which will be simplified thanks to the liberalised regime. the new rules will make the procedures quicker, cheaper and less bureaucratic. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the agreement on a simplified visa regime has led to the readmission agreement, which sets out clear obligations and procedures for the authorities of armenia, on the one hand, and eu member states, on the other, concerning when and how to take back people unlawfully resident on their respective territories. these obligations cover nationals of armenia, the eu member states and third countries and stateless people. the agreement also disciplines both sides. therefore i am in favour of it.
in writing. − although parliament opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation amending regulation (ec) 432/2012 establishing a list of permitted health claims made on foods, other than those referring to the reduction of disease risk and to children’s development and health, i disagree with that and i voted against.
in writing. − i agree with parliament that before any specific measures on reducing the control tasks of official veterinarians are taken, the measures proposed in the draft commission regulation should be considered in the context of the commissionʼs proposal of 6 may 2013 on official controls. in favour.
in writing. − parliament welcomes the strengthening of economic relations between the eu and china and calls on the eu and on china to pursue a well-balanced relationship of partnership, regular high-level dialogue and mutual benefits, rather than engaging in confrontational competition. therefore i am in favour.
in writing. − i agree that that the eu should respond positively to taiwan’s willingness to launch parallel negotiations for bilateral agreements on investment protection and market access in order to strengthen further the legal certainty of investments, and increase the volume and quality of investment flows. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i have for a long time been sending letters and making requests to parliament and the commission to draw their attention to the fact that rules on flight times have a strong effect on the safety of air transport and the social interests of staff. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i am against continued funding and other types of assistance to the countries neighbouring syria. first, the conflict in syria started with the help of the eu and the usa. now we are expected to finance not only rebellions but the results of military activities. i voted against.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur and to congratulate him, together with the secretariat of the committee on petitions, for the work that has been done. our group will of course support the report. although the report touches upon issues we were working on last year, many of them continue to be in the committee’s portfolio. the work of the committee on petitions is challenging, providing a unique opportunity for exchanges with grassroots citizens within this house and to better understand their real problems. it appears that the committee on petitions has become one of the clearest practical examples of what european citizenship means. we are satisfied that the report refers to a number of petitions which give evidence that union citizens and residents still face widespread and tangible obstacles when exercising their cross-border rights. people tabling a petition are doing so within a european scope. this is european integration in practice and it is our institutional and political duty as their elected representatives not to disappoint them. we cannot lose those who believe in the european union and its capacity to make their lives better because no proper attention, response or action was provided in a timely manner. therefore our group is concerned by the attempts to distinguish between petitions and other submissions by citizens. the committee on petitions itself, rather than parliamentary departments, should be able to decide whether or not we have a proper petition before us. if we suggest strong quality requirements for a petition, we might undermine one of the fundamental rights enshrined in the treaties. we are not a court. therefore too formalistic an approach will harm our authority. we have therefore asked for a split vote on appropriate dangerous references in the report.
i have read the report of professor panayotov, member of the european parliament, carefully. you know, i'm very pleased that vladko and i are friends, because i'm proud of my friendship with this man, and he has prepared a very important report that will protect hundreds of thousands of people from exposure to mercury and other harmful metals. i often criticise the commission and the rapporteurs, but today i want to say this with all my heart: when a job is done professionally, we feel the result. the end of the production of batteries containing harmful metals and mercury will give every european citizen extra health and the confidence that we meps are not working for nothing. vladko, you're a liar, and i'm proud to be your friend! i support this joint work between the european commission and professor panayotov on behalf of the socialist group. thank you all! thank you for your attention.
in writing. − the european parliament considers it crucial to provide jordan with adequate support, not only in consideration of its responsibilities in terms of humanitarian assistance to refugees from syria but also with a view to preserving jordan’s political and economic stability. in my opinion, the framework agreement between the european union and jordan on jordan’s participation in eu programmes is not very welcome as it promotes cooperation with syria and supports militants. i am against it.
in writing. − i know that the new eurosur system will permit a better and more coordinated response to events at the union’s external borders, including in helping to save the lives of migrants at sea. therefore i support the rapporteur and i voted in favour.
in writing. − the batteries directive (2006/66/ec) establishes rules on the placing on the market of batteries and accumulators and, in particular, a prohibition on the placing on the market of batteries and accumulators containing certain hazardous substances. the directive also sets out specific rules for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of waste batteries and accumulators. i supported vladko panayotov in my speech and i voted in favour of his report because i think he did a great job.
in writing. − i agree with parliament’s view that the climate of impunity regarding the cia programmes has enabled the continuation of fundamental rights violations in the counter-terrorism policies of the eu and the us, as further revealed by the mass surveillance programmes of the us national security agency and surveillance bodies in various member states, which are currently being investigated by parliament. i am confident that belgium, finland, greece, ireland, latvia, lithuania and slovakia will ratify the optional protocol to the un convention against torture as a matter of priority. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i agree with parliament that the commission should perform a mapping exercise of eu and national legislation, including international agreements, regulating the cross-border exchange of law-enforcement information. i voted in favour.
in writing. − caste-based discrimination is recognised as one the most serious human-rights problems in the world today and as a main cause of poverty and inequality in the countries affected by it, severely impeding the pursuit of sustainable development and poverty eradication. affecting an estimated 260 million people worldwide, this form of discrimination breaches the most fundamental principles of international human-rights law and leads to pervasive violations of human rights, with high rates of impunity. a solution has to be found. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report analyses the activities of the committee on petitions in 2012 (when it received 1 985 petitions, a significant increase on 2011). petitions about citizenship and the defence of human rights – rather than those relating to the environment – are the most numerous, reflecting the concerns of citizens. however, there should be a specific mechanism for defending eu citizens’ rights, but instead there are only statistics. i abstained.
and i asked everybody in this room, what is 65 euros? the minimum pension in latvia is eur 65. the minimum monthly subsistence allowance is 245 euros. it seems that the prime minister of latvia was late for math class at school. otherwise, he might know that 245 euros and 65 euros are different numbers. we need to give every latvian minister the opportunity to live on 65 euros a month and film it with a video camera. i'm sure it'll make a good comedy. latvian filmmakers will have the opportunity to win an oscar. unfortunately, the latvian pensioner is not funny. many people actually live on a pension of about $65 a month. this is happening in the european union.
in writing. − this draft regulation aims to establish specific wine quotas for kosovo. the procedures on implementing provisions had to be aligned to the new system of delegated and implementing acts. i do not know of any such country; i voted against.
in writing. − the kyrgyz economy was hit hard by the international financial crisis, and by ethnic violence in june 2010 which disrupted economic activities creating a substantial public expenditure gap. this assistance is an exceptional financial instrument of untied and undesignated financial support, which aims at restoring a beneficiaryʼs sustainable external finance situation. since it is underpinned by the implementation of a policy programme containing strong adjustment and structural reform measures designed to improve the countryʼs financial situation, i voted in favour.
in writing. − it is known that in vitro medical devices are devices intended for diagnostic purposes, i.e. tests which are carried out outside the human body. this product group covers a huge variety of tests, ranging from self-tests to measure blood sugar values, to hiv and dna tests. the quality of such tests is crucial, as proper treatment is not possible without precise diagnosis. i am in favour.
in writing. − medical devices are instruments, software or implants which are used for diagnosis, monitoring, treatment or replacement due to injury or disability. they cover a huge spectrum of products ranging from low-risk products such as corrective glasses, sticking plasters, etc. to high risk products such as pacemakers, hip implants, etc. i voted in favour, because the existing regulatory framework for medical devices dates back to 1990 and 1993 and needs to be updated substantially.
in writing. − the proposed ship recycling regulation aims at reducing negative impacts linked to the recycling of eu-flagged ships, especially in southern asia, where ship recycling practices continue to be dangerous to human health and the environment, due to the use of the ‘beaching܀ method. the euʼs waste shipment regulation, implementing the basel convention and in particular the ‘ban amendmentʼ to the convention, which prohibits the export of hazardous waste outside the oecd, classifies eu-flagged ships going for dismantling as hazardous waste, to be dismantled only in oecd countries. yet this legislation is almost systematically circumvented. the com proposal focuses on the recycling of eu-flagged ships, including provisions on the publication of an inventory of hazardous materials, recycling plans, requirements for ship recycling facilities and related inspections. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this is a technical file, which harmonises the collection of statistical data on demography. the goal is to create a sound basis for the harmonised collection of reliable and comparable population data. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report comes at a very important time as the current political and economic context threatens sexual and reproductive health and rights. there is a tendency in many member states to accelerate the privatisation of health services. additionally, very conservative positions towards sexual and reproductive health and rights have arisen all over europe, especially in hungary and in spain. the world health organization states that reproductive health addresses the reproductive processes, functions and systems at all stages in life and implies that people are able to have responsible, satisfying and safe sex and the capability to reproduce and the freedom to decide if and how often to do so. this also implies the right to be informed and to have access to affordable methods and healthcare services that will enable women to go through pregnancy and childbirth and provide couples with healthy children. sexual and reproductive health and rights includes issues such as maternal mortality, sexual education, adolescent birth rates and unwanted pregnancies, abortion, sexually transmitted infections and sexual violence. since the birth mortality rate in latvia is the highest in the developed world i sincerely support the rapporteur. in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the report concerns more the sahel region and various issues such as preoccupations over human rights in armed conflict situations, issues of accountability and reform of government, judicial and security institutions, civil freedoms and democratic governance, development, humanitarian aid and the human rights of women, children and minorities.
in writing. − this own-initiative report responds to two commission communications: ‘the roots of democracy and sustainable development: europe’s engagement with civil society in external relations’ and ‘empowering local authorities in partner countries for enhanced governance and more effective development outcomesʼ. it supports a more democratic perspective in the development agenda in which the most marginalised parties can participate. it supports the empowerment of civil society and local authorities, ensuring an enabling environment to involve them in policy formulation, programming and implementation, and in monitoring mechanisms to achieve this. i abstained because there is no clear definition of ‘civil societyʼ.
in writing. − i agree that education is a key solution to the crisis and to the alarming levels of unemployment across the union. the current education model is outdated and does not match a society that has changed rapidly throughout past decades. thus rethinking the current education models is really crucial. however the role of education must be seen as much broader than just fulfilling the economic targets of european and national strategies and addressing the needs of the current labour market. the primary mission of education is to prepare individuals for life, as well as to be active citizens in increasingly complex societies. the rapporteur katarina nevedʼalová formulated and drafted the report very clearly. i totally agree with her. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report acknowledges the new approach taken by the commission since 2012 in enlargement policy. this new approach tackles reforms to justice and home affairs in the accession process by establishing a new negotiation methodology, including clear prioritisation and conditionality in the area of accession (see chapter 23: judiciary and fundamental rights and chapter 24: justice, freedom and security). the rapporteur recognises that corruption is a major challenge for the majority of candidate and potential candidate countries, and is concerned about links established between organised crime on the one hand and political leadership on the other, especially in the countries of the western balkans. i would add latvia as well. in favour.
in writing. − it is clear that access to safe healthcare is a basic right for eu citizens. investing in patient safety at all levels is of overwhelming benefit to improving our quality of life, and also reducing the unnecessary burden on society. in favour.
in writing. − i support the protection of businesses against misleading advertising practices, while taking into account the particular vulnerability of small and medium-sized enterprises. in favour.
in writing. − the parliament's report on misleading advertising is to be welcomed, as various types of misleading marketing practices remain relevant in many eu member states, especially the new ones. for example, i am aware of misleading practices by credit rating agencies where a fraudulent company sends out forms, ostensibly asking companies to fill them in or to update their company name and contact information free of charge. the applicant shall then state that he has signed, without knowing it, a contract for inclusion in the directory with commitments for at least three years. the level of protection against such de facto fraudulent activities varies significantly from one member state to another. it should be noted that small and micro-enterprises are the main victims of misleading advertising. in addition, schools, churches, hospitals, ngos, municipalities and other public institutions are also targeted by misleading practices. it is positive that the resolution calls on the member states and the european commission to implement more joint actions and efforts to raise awareness, strengthen cooperation and apply existing legislation (such as directive 2005/29/ec on unfair commercial practices (unfair commercial practices directive) and directive 2006/114/ec on misleading and comparative advertising). a number of recommendations are made to improve cooperation and information exchange between the responsible authorities in the member states, international business organisations and service providers that fraudulent companies often use to disguise their activities.
in writing. − drug precursors are chemical substances which have a wide variety of everyday uses such as in plastics, cosmetics, perfumes, detergents, or aromas. they are traded for legitimate purposes on global markets, but some of them can also be diverted from distribution channels for the manufacture of narcotic drugs. taking into account the wide legitimate uses of drug precursors, their trade cannot be prohibited. this regulation seeks to regulate trade in ephedrine and pseudoephedrine which can be found in cold or allergy medicines. these two substances are also the main precursors for the manufacture of methamphetamine or ‘crystal meth.’ i am confident that any export of products containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine should be preceded by a pre-export notification sent by the competent authorities in the union to the competent authorities of the country of destination. in favour.
in writing. − this rather technical report and proposed first-reading agreement seeks to amend existing regulation 273/2004 on drug precursors (which are substances frequently used in the manufacture of illicit drugs). the principle purpose of the revision of the regulation is to strengthen control of the trade in acetic anhydride which is often used in the illicit production of heroin. the commission proposes a registration scheme for all operators and end-users trading in and using this particular precursor. in my view this proposal is worthy of support. in favour.
in writing. − the council is in the process of drawing up a draft action plan on e-justice for 2014-2018. there is no longer any possibility of drawing up an initiative report, as the juri committee did in 2008, on the current action plan. neither the oral question nor the resolution is balanced completely. the oral question focuses on experience with the current e-justice action plan, the conclusions that can be drawn from it, and what the ep cannot expect from the future action plan.
on behalf of the s&d group. - mr president! there are three aspects to this problem. the first aspect is our work with the maldivian government. is it news that the power structure is no longer under the control of the president? how could the chief of police be a dictator by nature? we need to evaluate these activities. the european union should not help the maldivian government if there is no order. secondly, what kind of president can't replace the chief of police? what are his tools of statecraft, and why did we learn about it during the election and not during the official visit of the maldivian president to brussels? thirdly, if the maldives is really run by a power structure, then tell me, please, why do we have to give them financial aid? maybe we don't really know what's going on in the maldives. if we don't, it's the unprofessional work of our team. if we know, why do we react only after there's political corruption? we need to learn to say things by their true names so that we don't have so many unpleasant news from the maldives. thank you for your attention.
in writing. – there is a lot of shouting and indignation about the greenpeace case. indeed, they made a lot of noise as they dared to intrude another’s home. the russians acted correctly when they reacted robustly and brought all the intruders to justice. it would be interesting to know how the usa would react if their oil or gas stations were intruded by representatives of greenpeace. we understand that this organisation tends to put on a show; we need only mention israel, the us 6th fleet and other examples. should we, as members of the european parliament, spend time trying to find a solution for the consequences of the deeds of intruders and then rescue them? or maybe they want to be in prison. they were looking for glory, and they got it at the cost of judicial proceedings and deprivation of freedom. if we continue in failing to make a precise assessment of the inadequate activities of organisations, then tomorrow we could have terrorists and extremists intruding stations; they would not be content with taking photos but try to set off an explosion and destroy the station. i think it is necessary to be cautious and sober in our assessments and not give in to pressure from open russophobes in the european parliament.
in writing. − the level of the parliament’s budget for 2014 was set at eur 1 783 976 098, which represents (1) an increase of 1.9% over the 2013 budget; (2) a reduction of eur 24.16 million compared to the estimates of 25 march 2013; and (3) a reduction of eur 9.66 million compared to the draft budget adopted by the commission (a freeze on salary adjustment was applied, which in the case of the ep created a saving of eur 14.5 million). i agree and i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report is focused on the importance and usefulness of pooling, mapping and disseminating fisheries data within the wider ‘marine knowledge 2020’ initiative, with particular reference to the following key points: information sources and types of data; how to achieve data availability; how to compile and pool data effectively; and how to benefit from the processing and interpretation of data. i agree with the rapporteurʼs line and call for the identification and establishment of fish recovery areas and marine protected areas in order to ensure vulnerable marine ecosystems are protected. i have confidence in the importance of the precautionary approach and the need to have aggregated data publicly available. i am in favour.
in writing. − the eu currently does not have a legislative framework to streamline and effectively enforce its rights under the wto and other international trade agreements. this proposal will create a legal framework for the eu to do this, so that we can exercise our rights in a timely and effective manner. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i think that the european maritime and fishery fund (emff) objective is to assist the common fisheries policy implementation. it is based on four pillars: green fisheries, green aquaculture, sustainable and inclusive territorial development and integrated maritime policy. i voted in favour.
in writing. − a programme for the environment and climate action – life – has been the only instrument exclusively dedicated to financing environment and climate-related projects over the last 20 years. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − corruption, money laundering and organised crime represent a threat for european democracy for citizens and for legal markets. in a period of economic and social crisis, all resources deviated from legal activity must be recovered and directed to the real economy supporting legal, decent and sustainable work. in latvia such flaws became comprehensive. this report is a little step forward and i voted in favour.
in writing. − this commission statement, accompanied by a resolution proposed by the committee on foreign affairs, is focused on the 2012 progress reports in the framework of the reviewed european neighbourhood policy and it is not complete. i abstained.
in writing. − the commission and the right wing in principle accept that we need less austerity and more investment in order to stabilise the eurozone. this report however reminds them that much more needs to be done because the slow recovery is very fragile, and the investment programmes of the eu, such as the growth and jobs pact or the new convergence and competitiveness instrument only exist on paper. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in the resolution the european parliament calls for humanitarian assistance to survivors of such tragic events, and asks that the eu and the member states be committed to guaranteeing migrants’ universal fundamental rights, in particular the rights of unaccompanied minors. the problem is to be solved and it is the first step. i am in favour.
in writing. − since the ep asks the commission, in the light of the above, temporarily to suspend the agreement until the following conditions for opening negotiations on its resumption have been met: (a) full and comprehensive clarification of the facts as to whether any us government agency or equivalent has gained unauthorised access to financial data governed by the agreement, outside or in breach of the agreement, (b) achieving full mitigation of the situation where necessary, (c) conducting a full analysis of the implementation of articles 1, 4, 12, 13, 15 and 16 of the agreement and identifying a solution for proper implementation, which may entail the revision of the articles concerned, i voted in favour.
in writing. − in the resolution the european parliament approves the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2013, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the programme provides an overarching framework for environment policy up to 2020, identifying nine priority objectives for the eu and its member states in order: 1. to protect, conserve and enhance the eu’s natural capital; 2. to turn the eu into a resource-efficient, greener and more competitive low-carbon economy; 3. to safeguard eu citizens from environment-related pressures and risks to health and wellbeing; 4. to maximise the benefits of eu environment legislation; 5. to improve the evidence base for environment policy; 6. to secure investment for environment and climate policy and get the prices right; 7. to improve environmental integration and policy coherence; all the points are very timely and i voted in favour.
in writing. − exposure to ionising radiation is detrimental to health; therefore we should ensure that a comprehensive range of measures is adequately in place and properly implemented, in order to ensure the highest level of protection for workers, patients and the public, as well as the environment. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report is vague and imprecise; a lot of water. i cannot support such unprofessional work. elmar should revise it. i voted against.
in writing. − the last revised eu telecoms package was adopted by the parliament and council on november 2009, after lengthy and difficult negotiations, to amend the regulatory framework for electronic communications and was due to be implemented in all member states by may 2011 (however, only a small minority of member states transposed the rules in time and the last one to notify full transposition did so only in january 2013). the package was firstly designed to bring regulatory certainty to the sector; it is to be considered as a part of a broader picture, that is to say a tool that could bring the necessary conditions to foster and combine both investment and competition, and thus have an impact on citizens’ lives. the aim of this implementation report from the parliament is therefore to set a comprehensive and straightforward overview of the state of implementation of the telecom package, its achievements and also its flaws. indeed, the regulation needs to be dynamic and fact-based if it is to be successful. catherine did a great job and i think that the topic is very timely and appropriate. i totally support the rapporteur. in favour.
for the ecr group the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: unlike my good friend michael cramer, who was only very aggressive and negative about what was done, i would like to start by saying that i think that very good work has been done with these two reports on the connecting europe facility and also on the european transport networks. and why is that? because this is no longer a directive. both these documents are in the form of regulations and the connecting europe facility did not exist at all. why would you do that? because there's three times more money for transportation than there was in the seven years that ended this year. yes, the cohesion fund money is also included - very important, because it allows these projects to finally be implemented in those countries which would have great difficulty in implementing these projects if the co-financing rate remained at 20%, 30% or 40%. now it's up to 85 percent, and i think that's a good result. i also think it is useful that there are two layers of the 'core network' and the 'overall network' approach in both documents. in addition, we have managed to maintain this approach to the corridor in the difficult negotiations with the council. it is extremely important that we really realise these core network projects that are in the corridors, with european added value, with multiple modes of transport developing these corridors. not just one, like one railroad or one highway. and i think this synergy approach between transport, energy, and also communication has also worked. because i really see this as a positive step. i would also like to thank commissioner siim kallas, who has actually made a project of geopolitical significance possible in this context. i mean rail baltica. this means that the baltic states have the opportunity to finally join the european union, if, of course, the member states involved in this project do not find reasons why not to do so. this time the ball is in their court, and i think all european citizens, including those in the baltic states in particular, know that if rail baltica does not become a high-speed rail project, it will not be the fault of some european union institution, such as the european parliament, which did not provide sufficient funds or did not want this project, but the only ones to blame will be the member states and their interest groups, which did not want to implement this project in the future. but i really hope not. the same applies to energy, as the connecting europe facility makes it possible to identify energy 'shortages', for example in gas supply, and to co-finance up to 50% of the project cost, or even 75% if it is really possible to break out of the gas monopoly. because i'm actually very optimistic about both of these issues that we've been looking at. thank you, everyone!
in writing. − most countries in the european union (eu) are experiencing a financial crisis. countries are reducing their spending, which also directly affects their contributions to the eu's general budget. there are two types of countries - those that receive less than they pay out of the eu budget and those that receive more. we are in the second group because we contribute far less to the eu's overall budget than we receive from it. this money is given to us. the negotiations on the eu budget for the next seven years were long and intense, both in the european parliament and in the council. the initial offer threatened a reduction of approximately eur 1 billion for latvia compared to the previous budget. however, because of the lack of both a member of the european parliament and a latvian representative in the council, we have managed to achieve the outcome that latvia wants, namely a doubling of agricultural subsidies. at the same time as member states reduce their budgetary contributions, we will continue to receive almost the same amount as in the previous budget, namely eur 3000 per capita, which is the third highest level of funding in the eu. this proposal is in latvia's favour and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - the resolution is certainly worthy of support. the compromise reached between the member states and the european parliament is positive from latvia's point of view. with a further delay in the adoption of the budget, payments for 2014 would continue at the level of the previous multiannual budget, i.e. 2013. for example, for latvian farmers, this would mean continuing to receive the existing area payments of eur 95 per hectare instead of eur 109 in the 2014 budget. however, the overall trend towards a smaller eu budget reflects a decline in solidarity between the eu and the interests of the large member states. moreover, the reduction in eu budget expenditure is not in line with the current trend towards increasingly centralised eu surveillance, especially in budgetary and economic matters. in the 2014-2020 budget, direct payments to agriculture are the main item where latvia in particular gains significantly financially compared to the previous period. it should be noted that by 2019, the area payments per hectare will gradually increase to eur 196, although latvia will still rank last in the eu in this area. the creation of a new financing mechanism connecting europe facility (cef) to finance transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure projects of eu interest is also essential. it links the cohesion fund to allow the cohesion countries to finance transport projects, including the rail baltica railway project, with eu co-financing of up to 85% of the total costs, and energy projects with up to 75% of the total costs.
in writing. − i voted in favour, because it was the vote on the position tabled by the committee on budgetary affairs supporting the political agreement reached at the highest political level between parliament, the irish presidency and the commission on the multiannual financial framework as the maximum achievable under the current circumstances and procedures.
in writing. − the proposed increase is financed as follows: eur 15.95 million of margin remaining available under heading 1b, ceiling for the year 2013: eur 134.05 million to be mobilised thanks to the flexibility instrument, over and above the 2013 heading 1b ceiling. in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour amending budget 8/13, which is meant to fill the gap between the original amending budget 2-13 (+ eur 11.2 billion in payments appropriations) as submitted in spring 2013 and the amount eventually agreed in september 2013 (+ eur 7.3 billion in payment appropriations) after long and difficult negotiations between the council and parliament.
in writing. − this is the seventh mobilisation of fund in 2013. eur 17.9 million have been mobilised so far in 2013 out of eur 500 million available annually (under the 2007-13 mff). the application relates to 630 redundancies that occurred in the manufacturing sector of other non-metallic mineral products between 14 june 2012 and 14 march 2013. i regret that latvia is not using the fund for its benefit. however, in favour.
in writing. − the agreement on government procurement is an international agreement on access to government procurement markets. it was negotiated within the framework of the world trade organization and is comprised of 15 parties – almost exclusively industrialised countries – including the eu, japan and the us. the agreement itself consists of rules on procurement and concrete offers from the parties to the agreement to liberalise their public procurement markets. taking into account the importance of the agreement, i voted in favour.
in writing. − erasmus has grown into one of the eu’s most successful and most well-known initiatives. the future programme will be a sensible consolidation of the current range of separate programmes while maintaining the individual brand identities of the various sectors. the overall programme budget is an increase on the current level of eu support for programmes in these areas and is a positive outcome in difficult economic circumstances. the programme’s beneficiaries are provided with sufficient detail to make clear which activities are eligible for support and more than 4 million people will now have the opportunity to benefit from the eu grants over the next seven years. it is very important programme and i support the rapporteur.
in writing. − the aim of this programme is to bring europe closer to its citizens and to enable them to participate fully in the european construction. through this programme, citizens have the opportunity to be involved in transnational exchanges and cooperation activities, contributing to developing a sense of belonging to common european ideals and encouraging the process of european integration. however, i and my group regret that the meps directly elected by the citizens could not fully participate in the creation of citizens’ programme for the next seven years and that it has received such a low budget in the european year of citizens itself. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the aim of this programme is to bring europe closer to its citizens and to enable them to participate fully in the european construction. through this programme, citizens have the opportunity to be involved in transnational exchanges and cooperation activities, contributing to developing a sense of belonging to common european ideals and encouraging the process of european integration. however, i and my group regret that the meps directly elected by the citizens could not fully participate in the creation of citizens’ programme for the next seven years and that it has received such a low budget in the european year of citizens itself. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour because i think that smart investment in europe’s infrastructure ensures a more cohesive eu and promotes sustainable jobs and growth.
in writing. − the agreement reached between the council and the european parliament is welcome. the creation of the connecting europe facility (cef) is a historic event it is the first time in the eu's history that such a large amount of funding will be provided for transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure projects of eu-wide importance. the cef is a very important instrument in the creation of the eu single market and in the provision of modern transport, energy and telecommunications links between the eu member states. the opportunities offered by this instrument are particularly important for countries in the eastern part of the eu that have historically lacked connections with the western part of the eu. the cef is expected to lead to the implementation of significant cross-border projects across the eu that might otherwise be delayed or cancelled due to limited funding from member states. in the case of latvia, the implementation of the cef will, firstly, mean the implementation of the second phase of the rail baltica, or high-speed rail project, which is included in the eu transport masterplan within the framework of the north sea-baltic corridor. for the new eu member states, whose financial capacity is nowhere near as large as that of eu donor countries, the cef is of particular importance, allowing specific transport projects in the cohesion countries to receive up to 85% of eu funding. it is essential that the cef money can also be used for projects to diversify energy supplies and in particular for the elimination of the so-called 'energy islands'. latvia could use this financing for the construction of a liquefied gas terminal, thus creating competition for gazprom's monopoly on our market.
in writing. − the new trans-european network for transport guidelines seek creation of an efficient, safer and smooth european transport network across 28 member states that will boost jobs and growth in europe. i support it.
in writing. − the aim of this commission proposal is to modify nine legislative acts in the domain of agricultural and fishery statistics, in order to align them with the lisbon treaty. in favour.
in writing. − a better and more wide-scale global management and control of pollution in waterways is to be welcomed and encouraged through the protection. i am in favour.
in writing. − the purpose of the proposal for a council decision is to define the funding arrangement for the eu contribution to the iter project for the period 2014-2018 through a supplementary research programme under the euratom treaty. the proposed programme covers the contributions to the construction of the iter facility, procurement of equipment and installations and general technical and administrative support for the project during construction, and participation in commissioning and initial operation, as well as other iter-related activities. the programme will be financed through a maximum contribution of eur 2.573 million and be funded by contributions of the member states, based on a call rate applied to each member state’s gross national income. in favour.
in writing. − the general objective of the programme is to improve nuclear safety, security and radiation protection and to contribute to the long-term decarbonisation of the energy system in a safe, efficient and secure way. the general objective will be implemented in the form of direct actions (for example, improve nuclear safety) and indirect actions (support safe operation of nuclear systems, for example) – actions which pursue the specific objectives. the financial envelope for the implementation of the euratom programme is set at eur 1 788.889 million. i agree with the rapporteur that financing for euratom has been inadequate and the costs should be harmonised and the resultant savings should be directed to research. in favour of the rapporteur.
in writing. − this consultation file concerns the nuclear safety cooperation part of the eu’s external aid for 2014-2020. it allocates some eur 631 million to support the promotion of nuclear safety and safeguards in third countries, in particular neighbourhood countries and seeks to ensure the eu has the capability and means to respond to assist in challenges arising in the field of nuclear safety and specifically remediation of mining sites, disposal of spent fuel, waste management and decommissioning of installations. i am in favour.
in writing. − the report demands that every effort should be made to continue the co-financing practice established under the pre-accession assistance and the assistance given over the period 2007-2013 for all three member states’ decommissioning efforts as well as to attract co-financing from other sources as appropriate. i agree and i voted in favour.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, on behalf of my group, i would like to say three things. firstly, we support this new law as a compromise: a normal and serious compromise. it is a completely new law, with completely new principles, but we support it. secondly, we are asking colleagues here not to support amendments, which may come tomorrow, designed to increase the european social fund (esf) share. we in the alde group were initially against any shares but we believe that the compromise on 23.1% is one which we have to defend, for even history shows us that formally increasing the esf share will not improve unemployment statistics and it will be at the expense of the regional development fund and thus, indirectly, at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises. this is a compromise, and we strongly urge honourable members to support it. thirdly, we also support the compromise on economic conditionality. for that reason our group will not support amendments aimed at getting rid of it. this is a compromise: where sanctions are connected with the employment situation, with the poverty rate and gdp contraction, up to 50% of payments will be affected. that represents a serious reduction and the compromise should be supported. on other areas of the proposal – on annual advance payments and on performance reserves – there are also compromise numbers. for that reason, we believe that a serious job has been done here. the only thing we will put on the agenda tomorrow as a group will be the initiative on smes. it is not compulsory, it is a voluntary measure, but we believe that the reduction from eur 10 billion to eur 8.5 billion should be reversed. we will see how many support this initiative, because we believe that countries could be ready to provide more money in principle to the european investment bank to support smes’ activities that fall within the scope of this law. i believe that this job has been done in a serious way. our main rapporteurs, and also the commission and the three presidencies with which we worked, have done a good job. we hope our work will lead to results in seven years’ time.
chairman! our political group is dissatisfied with the reduction of the common agricultural financing for 2014-2020 and with the commission's disregard for previous political agreements in the preparation of delegated acts. we believe that the commission's proposal, which means freezing funding from 2014 to 2020 at the 2013 threshold, will not be sufficient to finance the current common policy priorities of the european union. the financing of the union budget must be returned to the true system of own resources provided for in the treaty of rome. the negotiations in the council seem to be taking place in two opposing camps, led by the net member states - paying into the european union budget, on the one hand, and the net beneficiary countries, on the other, which would also be unacceptable. the agreement of the heads of state or government of the european union that all member states should receive direct payments of no less than eur 196 per hectare in 2019 is fully supported. however, latvia will still receive less. my group continued to vote against the reduction in funding for the common agricultural policy. because it is about providing all the people of the european union with a healthy diet, and that requires money. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your time. i would like to commend and thank the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs for the compromise reached. the fact that the compromise does not really satisfy anyone confirms that it is the best possible solution under the current circumstances. it also means that we must continue the reform of the cap and start doing so at the next european parliament. the most important thing for latvian farmers was to achieve fairer direct payments, as they are the basis for unequal competition in europe. thanks to parliament's understanding, we have been able to significantly improve the european commission's original proposal and increase the competitiveness of latvian farmers. however, i would like to stress that further alignment of direct payments is absolutely necessary if a genuine single market for agriculture is to function in europe. latvian farmers are sceptical about the effectiveness and necessity of many greening measures in latvian conditions. more than 50% of latvia's territory is covered by forests. we also have a lot of agricultural land that is still under cultivation. the 2016 report on the effectiveness of greening measures will therefore be expected to provide a thorough analysis of the agricultural situation in each member state. the future of latvian agriculture is linked to dairy farming, which is why we support the abolition of milk quotas as from 1 january 2015. however, the free market in milk... (the president cut the speaker off) thank you.
in writing. – i categorically disagree with the eu’s and the european parliament’s policy on the programme of support to farmers in latvia. the imbalance in payments is so big that it is leading to the devastation of rural areas in latvia. despite some insignificant compromises, the situation remains severely dangerous. farmers are leaving latvian farms, while land is being obtained by pension funds and oligarchs from other countries. i have an impression that direct support payments to farmers do not reflect a wish to help but a wish to eliminate agriculture in latvia. the difference between payments to latvian farmers and farmers from other eu countries is up to 400%. it is unfair and cynical! i voted against cynicism, sheer mockery, deceit and populism. as long as there are double standards in the eu we cannot be called a democratic country.
in writing. − the draft amending budget (dab) 9/2013 relates to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) in romania, austria, germany and czech republic for a total amount of eur 400.5 million in commitments and payments. i support it and i am in favour.
in writing. − this is the second mobilisation of the fund in 2013. taking into account the present application eur 415.1 million have been disbursed under the eusf in 2013. we have to help each other in times of difficulty. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for an amount of eur 134.05 million is necessary to finance extra commitment appropriations in the 2013 budget. i am in favour.
in writing. − this is a further step to realising an independent, precise and reliable european satellite navigation system, offering practical solutions to european industry, for disaster response, road safety, environmental protection and public services. i am in favour.
in writing. − this agreement falls within the overall framework on trade in drug precursors which was adopted last month. drug precursors are chemical substances which have a wide variety of everyday uses such as in plastics, cosmetics, perfumes, detergents, or aromas. they are traded for legitimate purposes, but some of them can also be diverted from distribution channels for the manufacture of narcotic drugs. the agreement aims to strengthen the cooperation between the european union and russia to prevent diversion of these drugs for illicit means. through this agreement, each side is committed to exchanging information to prevent the diversion of scheduled precursors to the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs. i am in favour.
in writing. − this proposed council decision provides to amend the list of third states and organisations with which europol shall conclude agreements, as set out in decision 2009/935/jha. the proposal would add to the list of third states the following new entries: brazil, georgia, mexico and united arab emirates. i voted in favour in the hope that georgia will hand saakashvili to the hague tribunal.
in writing. − the cpr is a horizontal regulation covering all the european structural and investment funds. the adoption of this regulation is subject to a codecision legislative procedure and its final outcome depends on the input of the ep as co-legislator. the institutional negotiations in order to achieve a final compromise to this policy that is crucial for the eu took more than a year and about 90 trilogues. this is just in time to conclude the process in a first reading before the end of the year in order to apply the necessary measures and the relative implementing acts from the beginning of the new period 2014-2020. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour because in this period of crisis, the promotion of social cohesion through social investment for employment is of utmost importance. the european social fund is going to be the main instrument at eu level to support and help young people to integrate in the labour market and also the most vulnerable groups in society.
in writing. − the european regional development fund is the main instrument to achieve the goals of cohesion policy by correcting imbalances between its regions. our group strongly supported all the new elements that made the european regional development fund even more effective in creating jobs, supporting innovation, reaching environmental goals as well as funding for sustainable tourism and culture.
in writing. − i support the necessary measures leading to an effective and efficient cooperation between actors and stakeholders from different eu countries and regions in the objective to make the policies and the investments for those regions work better. in favour.
in writing. − the cohesion fund is an essential instrument for achieving the objectives of the eu for countries and regions lagging behind, by creating the necessary network of basic infrastructures that otherwise could not be built by each cohesion country’s national investments. additionally, investments with the cohesion fund meet the high standards imposed by eu law. i voted in favour.
in writing. − a fast-track procedure to facilitate the creation of the adequate groupings of territorial cooperation as well as any other adequate simplification measure in procedures of cooperation is necessary to take advantage of and multiply the effectiveness of structural funds resources. in favour.
in writing. − i together with my group would have wanted to go further, but at this stage it is of utmost importance to signal to both member states and companies that this proposal should be finalised before the european elections. we therefore welcome the compromise found in parliament. gender diversity on boards leads to more sustainable decisions and therefore a more resistant european economy.
in writing. − it was the first time that the ep was involved as co-legislator on the cap reform under the codecision procedure. the ep could make the reform better and more democratic, whilst working swiftly enough to ensure that farmers will benefit on time from the new cap. i am in favour.
in writing. − this is the first legislation that aims at protecting small depositors since the protection of bank deposits up to eur 100 000 in 2010. it will protect small investors from risky and opaque investment products and ensure that they are fully informed when they invest. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i consider the current conditions as a good compromise. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in its resolution on the location of the institutions of the european union, the european parliament takes the view that it should have the right to decide on the organisation of its work, including the choice of location. the treaty on european union provides that 12 parliamentary meetings a year are to be held in strasbourg. the remaining time is spent in brussels. as required by the constitution of the european union, meps, their assistants and a large number of officials of the european parliament move to strasbourg at least once a month. the estimated cost of such travel is up to eur 204 million per year. the resolution calls for a minor amendment to the constitution of the european union to allow the european parliament to choose its single seat. i too believe that moving from brussels to strasbourg is unproductive and a waste of time and money. the european parliament must therefore have one seat.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we all talk in europe about economic growth, about new jobs. it is quite clear that we already have this common goal. the question is how to achieve this? moreover, when it comes to jobs, we need not just any jobs, but well-paid jobs, where people work in companies that produce goods and services with a particularly high added value to build people's well-being. the answer is indeed there, and the key answer is to support science and research. we know very well that support for science and research provides the basis for new jobs that are well paid. and the newly developed european union science funding programme, 'science 2020', not only increases the total money allocated to science over the next seven years by more than €20 billion, but also puts forward the premise that scientists need to collaborate not just between different institutions and universities, but also between member states, thus bringing together the smartest and most capable, and encouraging them to work together and raise the bar. so this program is absolutely to be congratulated. it's a real answer to where these high-paying jobs are going to come from. the 'action 2020' itself is something that has been conceived and developed in europe and that really serves our common purpose. thank you for your attention. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i will answer in german, if i may. mr. rübig, of course everyone would like to have more money. it's obvious. if we had 100 billion more instead of 20 billion, that would make everyone happy. but we must also remember that at the moment the european budget is what the member states are prepared to provide us with. that's why i think this is the right direction. we will then have at least 20 billion euros for the future, if there is a possibility of that. i think we in this house must insist that if there is a possibility of more money, we must demand it.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your support. if unemployment is a disease in europe, the cure is new jobs. europe needs economic growth. but to have this economic growth, it requires that companies put money into the economy and create these new jobs. but for companies to invest in the economy, it is very important that the business environment is favourable to investment. one of the obstacles to the business environment right now is the fact that there is money laundering and also full tax evasion. - what does it do? it creates a different set of rules. why invest in a system where there might be someone who's cheating and has at least that much leverage at the time? so what can be done? and what's the plan? to combat this situation and to level the playing field for businesses, this programme provides for exchanges between the tax authorities of the member states, and this is precisely the means to reduce the chances of money being misappropriated and of avoiding the payment of fair and full tax. this in turn will level the playing field for entrepreneurs. this will lead to greater investment in entrepreneurship in the economy and create these jobs that we all so badly need. thank you for your attention.
in writing. − on 30 november 2011 the european commission adopted the horizon 2020 package that brings together for the first time all existing eu research and innovation funding currently provided through the 7th framework programme for research and technological development, the competitiveness and innovation framework programme and the european institute of innovation and technology. horizon 2020 will cover the period 2014-2020. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the parliament got many of their demands in exchange for acceptance of the council’s funding model. these achievements are: ‘widening excellence’ and ‘science with and for society’; clean and affordable energy for europe; more and better participation of smes; gender equality; scientific panels; balance between small-medium and big projects.
in writing. − adoption of the strategic innovation agenda of the european institute of innovation and technology: within horizon 2020, the eit will not be part of the tackling of societal challenges. i abstained.
in writing. − the european institute of innovation and technology has been set up by regulation (ec) no 294/2008 with the objective to contribute to sustainable economic growth and competitiveness by reinforcing the innovation capacity of the eu and its member states. during the period 2014-2020 the european institute of innovation and technology will not contribute to the general objective of horizon 2020. therefore i abstained.
in writing. − most actions of the proposed programme are a continuation of actions under the entrepreneurship and innovation programme under the competitiveness and innovation framework programme. cosme is the competitiveness part of the entrepreneurship and innovation programme. the innovation part of cip belongs to horizon 2020. the regulation will establish a programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises for the period 2014-2020, the first eu instrument to finance and support smes. i abstained.
in writing. − the specific programme defines the specific objectives and the broad lines of the activities which are specific to four parts of the programme: excellent science, industrial leadership, societal challenges, non-nuclear direct actions of the joint research centre. however, the programme does not solve all problems. i voted against.
in writing. − the last few years have seen wholesale reforms to the eu’s economic governance aimed at improving trust in the eu system. it is necessary to do the same for the european statistical system. we must increase the level of democratic scrutiny and accountability by ensuring a strong role for the european parliament, including in the appointment of the director-general of eurostat. i am in favour.
in writing. − we ensured a common consistent structure for the programme with clear funding priorities for innovative initiatives to boost employment and combat social exclusion. the programme will focus on helping young job-seekers, reducing long-term unemployment and social exclusion, combating discrimination and promoting gender equality. we secured the continuity of cross-border partnerships which was at risk due to the original proposal by the commission. therefore i am in favour.
in writing. − life is a small but extremely successful and popular eu funding instrument. for more than 20 years it has brought investments for environment and climate action, including funds for natura 2000, the eu-wide network of nature reserves. i supported the rapporteur.
in writing. − the fiscalis 2020 programme aims to support the cooperation between national tax authorities to help maximise their efficiency and avoid mismatches in their work, which could hinder the functioning of the internal market. it would facilitate networking, joint actions and training amongst tax personnel, while also funding it systems to ensure efficient exchange of information between national tax administrations. i am in favour.
in writing. − the programme customs 2020 aims at facilitating and enhancing cooperation between customs authorities within the eu, especially for cross-border activities. i voted against.
in writing. − the resolution stresses the ep’s commitment to the multilateral trade system and the support for an ambitious and balanced outcome at the ministerial conference. the european parliament expects results on the three deliverables: trade facilitation, agriculture and development issues. an agreement on trade facilitation should be binding but combined with support from developed countries to developing economies on capacity building and technical assistance. on agriculture issues, the ep expects the eu to address genuine food security concerns of developing countries. the ep should be closely informed and involved in the preparation of the ministerial conference; it requires strengthening the wto parliamentary dimension and the creation of a permanent ep delegation to the wto. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i have read the draft motion for resolution according to which the eu and member states should step up their coordinated efforts to improve entrepreneurial culture in europe and to explore the possibility of adopting specific measures and targets for making entrepreneurship attractive once again including for skilled employees with professional experience and in particular in sectors which are of strategic importance for the union; strong links should be established between such initiatives and the commission’s activities in the field of industrial policy; such measures should include actions to facilitate business creation. i think it is total pouring of water, therefore i am against.
in writing. − the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy is the signal coming from the fundamental democratic institution of the european union, the european parliament, to the council in preparation for its december meeting focused on the common security and defence policy. the proposals included in the present report should be considered by the representatives of the member states in their discussions shaping up the future of the common security and defence policy. still there is the question, what do we need nato for? i voted in favour.
in writing. − an operational common security and defence policy needs a strong european defence technological and industrial base. that creates horizontally positive effects in research, development, social and job development, while increasing the level of security of the european union. i am surprised by the rapporteur. he could have reported that the sun should be shining! i abstained.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the main aims of the programme are to facilitate and support judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters, to support and promote judicial training with a view to fostering a common legal and judicial culture, and to facilitate effective access to justice for all.
in writing. − the rights and citizenship programme is the successor to three current programmes: fundamental rights and citizenship, daphne iii, and the anti-discrimination and diversity and gender equality sections of the programme for employment and social solidarity. i am not sure that fusion of all these three programmes will allow a comprehensive approach to be taken towards financing in this area. so far no one is interested in mass non-citizenship in latvia. i abstained.
in writing. − in september 2013, russia announced a ban on imports of moldovan wines and spirits as retaliation for its drive to expand ties with the european union. the eu would like to compensate for at least some of the losses by extending trade preferences to moldovan wine. the recent trade preferences to moldova are permitted by a wto waiver that will expire at the end of this year. the commission submitted a request to the wto for a new waiver lasting until 31 december 2015 and extending the scope to wine. this request was granted on 27 november 2013. i am not sure that the commission will employ all efforts to ensure smooth procedure in the council. the extraordinary signature ceremony by the presidents of parliament and of the council is scheduled for 19 december 2013, so the amending regulation could be published and come into force before the end of this year. i abstained.
in writing. − i support this protocol; however, i am very committed to continuing work on the situation of western sahara. in favour.
in writing. − ilo convention no 170 is an important instrument for the protection of workers, the environment and society as a whole. to promote health and safety at work member states are encouraged to ratify swiftly convention no 170. i voted in favour.
in writing. − since this report proposes that parliament give consent for a council decision to conclude, on behalf of the eu, the protocol against the illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, supplementing the united nations convention against transnational organized crime, i voted in favour.
in writing. − obviously, this is a technical file which takes into account the accession of bulgaria and romania and the consequent enlargement of the eu’s customs union. under the wto rules, the eu is obliged to compensate wto members for the increase in bound duties and the resulting meaningful losses. i am in favour.
in writing. − as is known, the united states and the european union (eu) have engaged in a long-standing and acrimonious trade dispute over the eu’s decision to ban hormone-treated meat. the new memorandum envisages an extension of the transitional phase until august 2015, giving additional time for a definite solution to the wto dispute to be found. the autonomous zero-duty tariff-rate quota for high quality hormone-free beef will remain unchanged at 45 000 tonnes. the memorandum is an international agreement and its amendment is subject to consent from parliament. in a separate development, members were also informed of the us decision to bring its legislation into line with international standards for bse (bovine spongiform encephalopathy). this means that eu beef and bovine products will once again be allowed onto the us market, which has been closed to eu producers since 1998. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this agreement represents many jobs for both parties and focuses on the social dimension. maintaining employment in the european union and côte dʼivoire is one more argument in favour of this agreement, especially in times of crisis and a situation in which côte d’ivoire is making numerous efforts to regain political stability. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the exceptional geographical situation of the canary islands in relation to the sources of supply of certain fishery products which are essential for domestic consumption entails additional costs for this sector. the proposed duty-free tariff quotas are to be seen to compensate for the additional costs incurred in marketing certain fishery products from the outermost regions. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − the application relates to 4 509 redundancies that have occurred in nokia between 1 august and 20 november 2012. this is the 4th time (since 2008) that the egf has been mobilised in relation to redundancies in nokia in different eu countries. i regret this since i am using a nokia mobile phone. in favour.
in writing. − the application relates to 959 redundancies that have occurred in the solar energy sector between 15 november 2012 and 15 march 2013. of these, 875 redundant workers will benefit from personalised measures supported by egaf funding for a total of eur 2 305 million. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the application of eur 6 346 000 relates to 611 redundancies that occurred in the wind turbine manufacturing sector between 18 september and 18 december 2012. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the eu has to act coherently when concluding agreements with third countries. no partner should have preferential treatment. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report deals with recovery plans and resolution tools for improving the stability of the non-bank financial sector, that is, central clearing counterparties mainly. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the space industry is a driver for growth and innovation beyond its own sector, and a highly strategic sector. some of the measures proposed by the commission are: to increase industry skill levels, to make finance and investment more readily available, to ensure the euʼs independence in space and also to reshape the euʼs legislative framework to make it a driver for industry with, for example, legislation to promote the production and dissemination of data from satellites for commercial purposes. i supported the rapporteur and voted in favour.
in writing. − the commission published its strategy on cloud computing on september 2012 and this ini report is parliamentʼs answer to this strategy. the report recalls the economic potential of cloud computing for both growth and job creation and its positive expected effects on various sectors of the economy, such as healthcare, energy, public services and education. but high-capacity and secure communications infrastructures are a prerequisite for grasping the full potential of the cloud and the report regrets highly the lack of an ambitious and coherent investment strategy in broadband networks in europe. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the purpose of this monitoring report was to assess the functioning of berec and the berec office in order to set out a comprehensive overview and draw possible conclusions for improvements. i voted in favour.
in writing. − since this reform is a priority for our political group and its adoption demonstrates our leadership in important policy areas, i voted in favour.
in writing. − this legislative report is one of the cornerstones of the cfp reform. it is designed to help the sector implement the common fisheries policy and boost competitiveness, in particular that of producers. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the commission proposed a stricter system of rules for deep-sea fishing in the north-east atlantic in july 2012. licences for vessels that use certain types of deep-sea fishing equipment (bottom trawls and bottom-set gillnets) would be phased out and banned under the commissionʼs proposal two years after the regulation comes into force. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour because a properly functioning civil protection mechanism which provides an effective and coherent approach to disaster prevention, preparedness and response is a visible expression of european solidarity.
in writing. − it is very good that parliament and the council reached an overall agreement on the information that parliament and the commission could obtain from the member states on the implementation of eu legislation on financial services. this agreement allows a final agreement on the directive on credit agreements for residential property. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the new directive on credit agreements for residential property is fully welcome. the mortgage credit market has been one of the areas not regulated by eu legislation until now, but the deficiencies in this market were one of the causes of the financial crisis. the crisis and its consequences, including the indebtedness of many millions of people far in excess of the total value of their assets, show that member states have not been able to apply sufficiently stringent supervision of housing credit on their own. it is welcome that the new directive requires member states to develop precise rules relating to the interests of borrowers in the process of concluding credit agreements, namely the right to receive complete and comprehensible information on the terms of the credit and the associated risks; the right to withdraw from the credit before the end of a specified repayment period; the right to receive full financial advice rather than personalised marketing material. equally important is the requirement to carry out an objective assessment of the assets, including an assessment of the risks that could arise from changing market conditions. it is hoped that the incorporation of the requirements of the new directive into the legislation of the member states will increase the correlation of credit payments with the income of borrowers throughout the repayment period of the credit, avoiding personal bankruptcies for many families.
in writing. − as a least developed country, bangladesh enjoys preferential access to the eu market for a range of products including rice. the import arrangement in this proposal permits a reduction in import duty for husked rice. it has been proposed that the regulation be aligned with the post-lisbon regime of implementing and delegated acts. i voted in favour since it is very timely report.
in writing. − the emissions trading system has created the worldʼs first major carbon market and an eu-wide carbon price as a key tool for reducing the industrial emissions of the eu in a cost-efficient way. i voted in favour.
in writing. − according to article 6(1) of the waste framework directive (wfd), certain specified waste ceases to be waste when it has undergone a recovery operation and complies with specific criteria to be developed in line with the legal conditions laid down in this provision. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour though the rapporteur is heavily critical of the situation of the roma women and asks the member states to allocate enough funds in their national roma integration strategies and to develop national action plans to get more roma women working and to help get women out of poverty and misery. substantial help has to be given to get women to access healthcare, to stop teenage pregnancies, to develop special programmes to ensure that girls stay at school, to fight violence against women and to fight prostitution.
in writing. − help must be given to resolve the outstanding issues between sudan and south sudan in relation to the implementation of the comprehensive peace agreement of 2005, with the help of the international community. the two countries should abstain from the use of threats and force and respect the addis ababa agreements of december 2012. they should also make best use of the wealth and potential of the oil resources in the region. support mechanisms are necessary for a transparent distribution and management of oil revenues. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the following steps are needed to promote the automotive: investment in advanced technologies and financing innovation; improving market conditions through a stronger internal market and the consistent implementation of smart regulation; enhancing competitiveness on global markets through an effective trade policy and the international harmonisation of vehicle regulations; and anticipating adaptation by investing in human capital and skills and softening the social impacts of restructuring. through this strategy, the commission intends to support the active role the automotive sector will play in seeking to reverse the declining share of industry in europe from its current level of around 16 % of gdp to as much as 20 % by 2020.
in writing. − i agree that reproductive health addresses the reproductive processes, functions and systems at all stages in life and implies that people are able to have responsible, satisfying and safe sex and the capability to reproduce, and the freedom to decide if and how often to do so. this also implies the right to be informed and to have access to affordable methods and healthcare services that will enable women to go through pregnancy and childbirth and provide couples with healthy children. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european year of volunteering 2011 had a number of positive outcomes that go beyond the focus of a one-year campaign and activities, but they show how important volunteering is in democratic pluralistic societies. it promotes intergenerational solidarity and fosters active aging and lifelong civic participation, strengthening the goal of social inclusion. i voted in favour.
blue-card question. – i have two questions for you. the first question is: how many people were there in the streets? the second question is: what is the population of ukraine?
mr president, first of all i would like to remind colleagues that today is 10 december. i am afraid nobody has mentioned the fact that the universal declaration of human rights was passed 65 years ago. it declares in its article 1 that: ‘all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights’. i have several questions for speakers who spoke prior to me in this house. first of all, why do we not respect the dignity of our eastern european partners by giving them lessons? why do we not treat all ukrainians as equal human beings? it is known that public opinion is divided 50-50 in favour of and against european accession. why is only maidan shown on western european television rather than other squares in ukraine. i was in ukraine two months ago and i heard all the propaganda – mainly by mr yanukovych’s party – in favour of accession. nevertheless, according to all the polls, half the population has doubts about this accession. if we agree that all ukrainians are equal, why are we afraid of a referendum? we know that one of the parties in the parliament is... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. – failure to sign the association agreement and the dcfta falls totally within the remit of parliament and the council. we have missed the opportunity to move closer to ukraine and this is a loss for the eu. i and my colleagues from parliament and verkhovna rada have been working in this direction for three years and i regret the time and effort lost. what is more, it is incomprehensible that the eu officials should consider the doubtful release of yulia tymoshenko as more important than all the ukrainian peopleʼs rights on integration. i consider the failure of the vilnius summit as the fault of eu officials.
in writing. − the monitoring, evaluation and management mechanisms outlined should ensure that funds are spent in the most cost-effective way. in favour.
in writing. − domestic work is one of the most unprotected and invisible forms of work. ilo convention 189 introduces the requirement to protect domestic workers, who often, as women and migrants, find themselves in extremely vulnerable situations, becoming victims of discrimination and many forms of abuse involving severe violations of their human rights. in favour.
in writing. − request expressed in april 2012, based on the partnership and cooperation agreement between the republic of armenia and the european communities. the protocol contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of armenia in union programmes and includes the standard provisions contained in such protocols for european neighbourhood policy (enp) countries. therefore participation in each programme requires the drafting of a memorandum of understanding to be signed by both parties. furthermore the participation of enp countries concerns only those union programmes whose statutes and objectives permit such participation. armenia should contribute financially to the special programmes it participates in. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the commission proposal welcomes and aims to conclude an agreement providing for the application to saint-barthélemy of the mechanisms laid down in council directive 77/799/eec, council directive 2011/16/eu on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation, and in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income. i voted in favour.
in writing. − spain submitted a request to the commission to extend the period of application of decision 2002/546/ec for two years, so that its expiry date coincides with the expiry of the guidelines on national regional aid for 2007-2013. in favour.
in writing. − a new instrument for coordinating development aid in the eu should be established in the form of a regulation to reduce aid fragmentation, increase aid effectiveness and efficiency, and save billions. i am in favour.
in writing. − common implementation rules will be a regulation covering horizontal and common elements of all the external financing instruments for the period 2014-2020. i voted against.
in writing. − the instrument does not provide direct support for the unionʼs external policies by increasing the efficiency and coherence of the unionʼs actions in the areas of conflict prevention, crisis preparedness and crisis response and peace-building, and in addressing global and trans-regional threats. therefore i abstained.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood instrument will be the financial instrument funding the union’s cooperation with its eastern and southern neighbours, including certain aspects of cooperation with russia, in the period 2014-2020 in the context of eu external relations. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the instrument for pre-accession assistance will finance the enlargement policy of the union for the period 2014-2020. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this proposal for the partnership instrument for the period 2014-2020 replaces the financing instrument for cooperation with industrialised and other high income countries and territories (ici), which came into force in 2007, and which has been the eu’s main vehicle for collaboration with developed countries. the ici has proved an effective toolbox for providing a differentiated and appropriate response to widen and deepen cooperation with 17 countries (industrialised countries and high-income territories in north america, the asia-pacific region and the gulf region). i voted in favour since this instrument is very important.
in writing. − i voted in favour since the purpose is to establish a new financing instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights worldwide (2014-2020) in the context of the reform of the euʼs external action financial instruments.
in writing. − this useful development cooperation instrument finances eu development cooperation the main objective of which is the fight against poverty for the period 2014-2020. in favour.
in writing. − i know that too many eu citizens are facing difficulties on the labour market. while helping workers to improve their skills and be ready for new, decent employment opportunities, this key tool will continue to be used to mitigate the effects of the current economic crisis. i would like to see the globalisation fund help workers to prepare for closures in industries in difficulty. this is about avoiding the kind of social crises that those who work in the steel or automotive industries are experiencing today. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the commission, after years of pressure from parliament, finally presented on 12 june 2013 its proposal to extend the automatic exchange of information between eu tax administrations as part of the intensified fight against tax evasion. under this proposal, dividends, capital gains, all other forms of financial income and account balances will be added to the list of categories which are subject to automatic exchange of information within the eu. this would pave the way for the eu to have the most comprehensive system of automatic exchange of information in the world. i voted in favour since this is very important.
in writing. − this proposal concerns transport of radioactive materials by road, rail and inland waterway (there are existing requirements for air and sea) and aims to replace the current national reporting and authorisation procedures with a harmonised registration system to simplify and reduce administrative burden and ensure high levels of protection from radiation. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the euʼs annual report on human rights and democracy in the world for 2012 allows the euʼs work and achievements on human rights to be mapped in a systematic way and points out where further progress is most urgently needed. i voted against.
in writing. − i voted in favour because the report calls for stronger powers for parliament in the area of competition.
in writing. − the main purpose of this own-initiative report is to focus on the most endangered areas – after the expiry of the milk quotas in 2015 in particular – in order to ensure a decent living for farmers and a future for less favoured, environmentally sensitive and/or economically vulnerable areas. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i welcome the commission’s 2012 resilience communication and its objectives, and encourage the commission to actively pursue the proposals in the communication and to ensure there is a long-term approach to resilience-building. in favour.
in writing. − special targets to be set to improve the quality of life of women with disabilities, disability policies to be mainstreamed, structural funds to be used as much as possible, and housing to cater for women with special needs. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − retail is of major economic importance, accounting for 11 % of the eu’s gdp and 15 % of eu employment. in the eu, much emphasis has been placed on retail as one of the main pillars of the single market. for the larger retailers, the economies of scale possible within a well-functioning internal market can make the difference. it is therefore regrettable that many retailers that want to be active in several or all member states still face unnecessary obstacles, such as different packaging and labelling requirements, as well as differences in administrative practices. therefore it is necessary to tell the whole truth. i voted in favour of the action plan.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. there is a saying in the united states that there are two things that cannot be avoided at all. it's one thing to die, it's another to pay taxes. unfortunately, in the european union, we see that many people are able to avoid these taxes. that number is awesome! one trillion euros, or about 8% of europe's gross domestic product, is lost to the member states' coffers every year. what does that mean? to balance their budgets, governments are forced to raise rates on those who honestly pay taxes to compensate for this. but there are other negative consequences. this creates a different playing field between companies. for how can one who pays all the taxes compete with one who does not pay all the taxes? those who do not pay taxes have a lower spending base, and this distorts the whole market and hinders investment. so, of course, the solution is the exchange of information between member states, between tax authorities. i think that is a matter of course, and i cannot understand why some member states are still opposed to this. but there's another thing, we have to go one step further. we need to establish a single, genuine register of beneficial owners in the european union, to prevent companies from actually hiding and avoiding taxes, as we know it. so both the exchange of information and the actual beneficiary are necessary for the member states' coffers to be full and for the business environment, the investment environment, to be the same for everyone.
in writing. − the court of justice has proposed that the number of judges be increased by 12 to 39, which was considered appropriate. i am in favour.
in writing. − the commission proposal is welcome and amends the status of mayotte with regard to the european union in that the status of mayotte will be that of an outermost region within the meaning of article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) instead of that of an overseas country or territory within the meaning of article 355(2) of the tfeu from 1 january 2014. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour since the additional transposition period provided takes the disadvantaged social and economic situation of mayotte, as a new outermost region, into account.
in writing. − i think that the job creation potential of eco-innovation should be used to its full extent by dedicated funding, investment in education and training, and integrating eco-innovation in industrial policy. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the purpose of the omnibus package is to adapt all the decision-making procedures in trade policy to the new provisions on delegated acts and implementing acts of the lisbon treaty. i abstained.
in writing. − the aim of the report is to bring trade policymaking into line with the lisbon treaty, which has granted greater powers to parliament. parliamentʼs powers with regard to trade should be respected. in favour.
in writing. − i strongly support the goal of the commission proposal and call for its adoption as soon as possible. everyone should have access to the standard transactions of everyday life, regardless of factors such as financial situation, employment status, credit history or place of residence in the union. therefore, i support all service providers and all consumers being included in the legislative proposal, a large number of services being included in the basic banking account without any limitation on the number of transactions allowed, and a price as low as possible if the free approach is not adopted by the member states. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the report defines maritime spatial plans and integrated coastal management strategies, and encourages member states to improve cross-border cooperation. i abstained since the report as a whole does not hold water.
in writing. − the aim of this oral question is to put pressure on the commission to continue informing parliament and monitoring the implementation of this new regulation on certain measures for the purpose of the conservation of fish stocks in relation to countries allowing non-sustainable fishing. the position of my group is to exhaust all possible means of negotiation before implementing such trade measures. i am in favour.
in writing. − the european capitals of culture has been a success in many respects. it confers international prestige, motivates citizens to implement strategies for sustainable development, boosts tourism over the long term, spurs competitiveness within the cultural and creative sectors, involves all layers of society in cultural activities, etc. in the current economic crisis especially, it is essential such incentives encourage investment in culture and creativity, and create long-term cultural initiatives. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this proposal follows the examination of requests made by the french authorities to have the union acquis amended through specific measures applicable to mayotte in different areas, such as fisheries and animal health. examination of the situation regarding mayotte has revealed that the sensitive biological situation of its waters needs to be protected. in certain respects, france needs additional time to comply with the union acquis with regard to mayotte. i voted in favour.
in writing. − parliament calls on the commission to set up an effective eu-wide monitoring mechanism regarding the fundamental rights of roma. i voted in favour.
mr president, i voted against this resolution as i think that it was tabled in a spirit of confrontation, not of integration of the european continent as a whole. this resolution deplores in paragraph 2 the decision of the ukrainian authorities and president yanukovych. if mr yanukovych had signed this agreement, as he planned to do beforehand, would he then, in mr landsbergisʼs opinion, be ukrainian or not? but in any case he is the legitimately-elected ukrainian president – no one doubts that. i do not think that what happened at the vilnius summit was a missed opportunity, since the position of ukrainians is divided. during the recent polls conducted from 4 to 9 december the results show that 49% of ukrainians support euromaidan but 45% are opposed to it. the division cuts through the country: while 84% are in favour in the west of ukraine, 81% are in favour of the treaty with the customs union. it is dividing the continent, which is very dangerous. it is dividing the continent; it is dividing ukraine. we have the same thing in this resolution about armenia. i therefore do not agree at all with this one-sided view.
in writing. − parliament deplores the decision by the ukrainian authorities, under the lead of president yanukovych, to withdraw from signing the association agreement with the eu during the eastern partnership summit in vilnius, despite the clear willingness on the eu side to continue with the association process provided the conditions are met. parliament considers this decision to be a major missed opportunity in eu-ukraine relations and for ukraine’s aspirations. it acknowledges ukraine’s european aspirations, as expressed in the ongoing demonstrations by ukrainian civil society in the euromaidan in kiev and in other cities all over ukraine, where civil society did not hesitate to take its disapproval of president yanukovych’s decision out onto the streets. parliament reiterates its view that a deepening of relations between the eu and ukraine and the fact of offering ukraine a european perspective are of great significance and in the interests of both parties. i consider it as insincere. i voted against.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report which recognises the progress achieved so far and calls on the council to grant candidate status to albania.
in writing. − the community method should be used for all measures aimed at strengthening the emu. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon gave a new status but not a new role to the european council. the temptation for heads of state or government to resort to intergovernmental expedients jeopardises the ‘community method’, in breach of the treaties. a clear agreement with the european council is needed. members of the european council are accountable individually to their own national parliaments but accountable collectively only to themselves.
in writing. − it is important to promote green infrastructure to boost social and economic development in the regions and to safeguard europeʼs natural capital. i voted in favour.
in writing. − i agree with the report on the need for binding targets and a real commitment to eliminating the tax gap. there should be a set of indicators and binding targets at eu and member state level to close the tax gap, and the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance should be strengthened within the eu semester and the europe 2020 strategy. i voted in favour.
