in writing. – since the beginning of this legislature i have been campaigning for transparency in medicine prices. in malta the price of medicines is very high. this is often explained as being due to the small domestic market and transportation costs. this is true, but these arguments are also used as camouflage to explain the extraordinary high prices of medicine. medicines in malta usually cost twice as much as they do in belgium. in many cases they cost even more than this. there are a number of medicine importers. it is supposed to be a competitive market. but the question is, how competitive is this market in reality? why does the government tolerate such a situation? is there a political will to do something meaningful? notwithstanding the public awareness campaign which i have undertaken and the discussions held with the importers of medicine in malta, only a limited percentage of the 2 500 medicines on sale have had their prices reduced. the government in office has lost a golden opportunity on a bipartisan issue.
in writing. – one of the most disturbing statistics in malta relates to the participation of women in all spheres. this applies to the number of women who are parliamentarians, judges, chairpersons, directors, managers and the number of women who are part of the labour force both in academic and non-academic areas. malta does not score positively on this subject. to a certain extent this may be attributed to the fact that malta’s social background is not liberal, as well as to lack of opportunities. but today this cannot be quoted as an excuse. in order to increase women’s participation this has to be backed by investment in areas related to crèches and after-school care. the country has to economically sustain meaningful maternity/paternity leave. here lies the maltese paradox. the economic crisis has only had a marginal effect in malta. and yet one would have expected more investment to integrate women into the labour market. this has not happened yet. many countries in the european union have been able to address gender equality and women’s rights with much more success than in malta. it would be to our benefit to emulate these countries so as to achieve better statistics where these two important issues are concerned.
on 9 march last, general elections were held in malta. in this election a labour government was elected, which obtained an absolute majority of 54. 8%, as well as a stable majority of nine meps in parliament. the new socialist prime minister is joseph muscat, who was also a member of this parliament. on the new maltese government, european commission president barroso said he looked forward to a continued commitment to the commission working side by side with malta. the president of this parliament, martin schulz, said he was enthusiastic to work closely with the new maltese prime minister to find answers to the challenges facing the european union. the mandate of this government will run until 2017, when malta will take over the presidency of the european union. in the face of the economic crisis in europe, malta's new government will contribute fully in the council of ministers to promoting responsible governance, an economically stable europe, a europe that restores economic and social certainty to european citizens. malta strongly supports measures for economic growth that create jobs and contribute to the development of a fairer european society, where the principle of solidarity is in fact and not in words.
as members of the committee on transport and tourism last november we rejected a commission proposal to increase competition in the provision of these services at the main european union airports, by increasing the number of independent contractors from 2 to 3 at airports, which handle more than 5 million passengers a year. the commission wanted to have at least three because it believes that this would improve the efficiency and quality of the services. we expressed our fear that the proposal could lead to distortions in working conditions and safety. we also condemned the lack of evidence that the rule was increasing overall efficiency and operation. as socialists and democrats we recognised the wishes of workers to avoid liberalisation leading to worse working conditions. the text which is presented as a compromise to the proposal requires that service companies, and their subcontractors, must comply with collective agreements and represent the sector and the national laws of the member state. the most important thing we have achieved today with our vote is that we are introducing the conditions of pay and employment as criteria by which access to the market of restricted categories can be granted. this is the first time that the process towards liberalisation is being accompanied by harmonised social measures in the 27 member states, including malta, which already have more than three operators and will benefit in terms of social rules.
few realise that the european union and its component nations are the largest donors. parliament is in the process of discharging the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds, known as edf. i would like to make a few points relating to development funds and the different ways they are used. it is indeed obvious that properly functioning trade relations is a key issue for developing countries. development funds directed at achieving economic activities are laudable. regarding direct budget support, transparency and accountability must be a condition. my opinion, however, is that the best use of development funds is to reach those most in need. i have seen how such projects have changed the lives of the recipients. large water tanks for every family in small island nations in oceania. energy produced from cow manure in isolated areas of south asia. physically raising small hamlets in low lying regions affected by climate change. teaching widows how to raise chickens in order to sell eggs to have an income to survive. these are projects which in the end make a difference.
in writing. – renewable energy is one of the topics which is dominating the environmental agenda. not only that, it is dominating the agenda for increases in job creation. in some instances it is possible to reconcile the two, in others it is not. as we are all aware, renewables take various forms. the efficiency however is not equal. to give one example: one large wind turbine will produce an amount of energy equivalent to solar panels covering an area equal to the capital city of malta, valletta. then there is the physical impact. a wind turbine does not blend in as easily as solar panels. it sticks out like a sore thumb. the other issue is that the manufacturing of the equipment for renewable energy was seen as a way of creating jobs. this is not always feasible. the production of solar panels in a number of asian countries has resulted in cheaper and more efficient panels. several european factories producing solar panels have had to close down. europe can only excel on high technology products such as wind farms. evidently we rushed into this vital subject, creating renewable energy and creating jobs, without preparation. let us learn and not repeat previous mistakes.
in my first speech in this parliament i will speak on a subject which is our fundamental value as europeans: solidarity, and of great importance to us maltese: immigration and asylum. since 2002, thousands of immigrants have entered malta from upper africa. they have fled the country in search of a better future, and you have given them security. it is our country's responsibility to give protection and full rights to these people who are victims of circumstances, and there are no compromises with human rights. as the commissioner said, and i thank her for that, the pressure on our country has been felt. the pressure is heavy and requires effective, concrete and permanent action by the european union. the eurema project was a step in the right direction, but we cannot stop here and we must do more because this is a european issue. it is good to make speeches, it is good to make declarations, but they have no substance if they are just beautiful promises. solidarity must be strengthened and expanded. the next phase of action is now underway and it must be effective, concrete and permanent action. it cannot be a transitional or temporary solution. the permanent relocation scheme creates an efficient mechanism, cuts red tape and facilitates the relocation of those in need of international protection. we expect the european commission to give us a definitive date of when it will propose to put in place a permanent voluntary relocation scheme. it cannot be that the discourse remains in the air and we expect action and results.
it is a great honour for me to be here today in my role as a member of the european parliament. it is also a pleasure and an honour to be the first maltese woman to be elected as a member of this prestigious and important institution. at this time of turmoil in europe's political and economic scene, there is a need for us as the european parliament to give a strong and clear signal to our citizens that we are there for them and that this parliament will be the protagonist in order to ensure that these difficult times end today before tomorrow. in my work in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i will be contributing to ensuring that the european economy recovers as quickly as possible. i believe that to do this we need more than ever to ensure that we do not break our country's economies with excessive austerity but focus on measures of sustainable economic growth. it is a privilege for me to have this opportunity to serve the maltese people in the european parliament. i therefore pledge to do my utmost to safeguard the interests of maltese, gozitan and european citizens with the transparency and integrity that is appropriate and expected from the office entrusted to me.
in writing. −the period for the eighth election of representatives to the ep by universal suffrage. the european parliament has today set the date for the eighth election of meps by universal suffrage between thursday 22 and sunday 25 may 2014. i would like to emphasise my agreement with the idea of lowering the voting age to 16. it was to this end that i supported a written statement made in 2012 for the european parliament to approve this measure. citizenship education is very important to foster active citizenship, all the more so as 2013 is declared the european year of citizens. in malta, citizens aged 16 already have the right to vote in elections to local councils, thanks to the initiative of the new labour government. this right may be extended to the general election. it is important to say and to reiterate that the right to vote is an irrevocable form of democratic participation, and young europeans should have rights as well as duties. we must have confidence in young people. they must be the future of our decisions. we must give young people aged 16 and over across europe, including in malta and gozo, the right to elect their european representatives.
i voted in favour of the belet report on the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration, prospecting and production activities because this proposal aims to reduce the occurrence of serious accidents related to offshore oil and gas operations and to limit their consequences. the risk of a serious accident in connection with offshore oil and gas operations somewhere in the european union is high. and for this reason european rules are needed that offer possibilities for risk reduction throughout the european union as well as the strengthening of effective emergency operations in the event of accidents. companies operating offshore oil or gas platforms should be expected to submit a hazard report and emergency response plans before being granted a licence to start drilling. civil society together with the public should be involved in this process. trade unions and their representatives shall be encouraged to convey their views. we welcome the key principle that is being upheld in the report that we have approved today with the principle of no licence without guarantee. in fact no licence will be issued unless the applicant can prove adequate financial provisions covering potential liabilities from offshore oil and gas exploration operations. it is indeed essential to protect the coast of islands in the mediterranean such as the islands of malta and gozo.
i voted in favour of the report on renewable energy in the european energy market because it is an important report addressing issues of how national support schemes can support this energy. in this context it is also important to understand that these national schemes may affect the internal market. they thus underpin the need for new solutions such as smart grids, energy storage and balancing tools that help to bring a steady inflow of renewable energy into the grid, especially when considering the variable nature of renewable energy sources such as wind and solar. the result achieved today is also important for the member states. the new maltese government is committed to supporting the green economy by switching the power plant system from oil to gas. the government is committed to making the energy sector one of the main pillars of economic development in the country. renewable energy makes much more sense from every aspect, no less than from financial, environmental and health perspectives. without the target of creating the mandatory renewable energy system by 2030, europe would be looking for the chance to turn its energy system into one that protects the environment, enhances security of energy supply and creates more quality employment opportunities in this area.
in writing. - the rights of women in the balkan countries in the accession phase (a7-0136/2013 - marije cornelissen). i agree with a number of the objectives as listed in this report, for example where attention is being paid to equal rights and the importance of women in society. i agree to encourage greater representation of women in all areas of society, in particular in the political, economic and social spheres. i also agree to increase public awareness of equal rights and to take measures in this regard. it is true that more work is needed to promote women's rights through the media and through public educational activities. this is to remove stereotypes, end discrimination and increase women's participation in society. however, i will have a grudge against this vote because i do not agree in principle with abortion. this does not detract from the merits of the other positive parts of the report as listed in this explanation
in writing. − although i agree with the main points of this report, there are two issues on which i could not vote in favour. on the issue of quotas for women, i have throughout my career always maintained a position against gender-based quotas. also on a moral level, i am opposed to abortion. due to these two personal views which are contrasting with the views expressed in this report, i have decided to abstain on the final vote of this report.
i voted against the report on adequate, secure and sustainable pensions. i took this decision because i do not agree in any way that the retirement age should be increased and worse yet imposed on the elderly. at the same time i agree that it should be the prerogative of the member states to decide whether or not to raise the pension age in their country. it was the financial and economic crisis of recent years that turned into a social crisis that hit the pension income of millions of european citizens hard. instead of the statutory retirement age being linked to changes in life expectancy, the contributory increases within the schemes concerned should be extended. improvements in working conditions and employment as well as in labour market policy are crucial in this context to reduce the proportion of economic dependency in our society. this is to keep the number of economically active people growing. we must be careful that existing occupational insurance schemes are not in any way threatened by european union legislation.
in writing. − i agree with the main thrust of the report in that a reform of pensions systems should remain primarily a responsibility of the member states. however, i have abstained on the final vote of this report as i do not find myself in agreement with some of the proposed pension reforms envisioned by this report, such as raising the pensionable age and linking such retirement age with life expectancy.
i am new to this parliament and therefore i would like to take this opportunity, which i have in this house, to underline the importance of this report because i sincerely believe that by all possible means we must see to it that we give all the help we can to those who are most vulnerable in society. this report is an important step forward if we are to really defend and help those who have been victims of violence, whatever that violence is or was. we are not just talking about some small numbers, we are not talking about some problem that is limited to any particular country. we are talking about a problem that is widespread in all countries, including, where i come from, malta. if we take only violence against women, we see that we are talking about 25% of women in the european union. they have all been victims of violence at one time or another and so it is certainly not acceptable in a civil society, and so we must stand in solidarity with these victims. we must give them all the help they need to secure their future. i therefore take the opportunity as a new mep to say that it is one of my priorities to have a truly social europe that listens.
in writing. − whilst i wholeheartedly support the measures in this report which are aimed at combating tax fraud and tax evasion, i voted against the report as i am opposed to the parts concerning the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). i also believe that the question of tax havens is more complicated and needs further studies before taking a position on it.
in writing. − i believe that taxation policy should remain a prerogative of the member states and any loss of sovereignty in areas of fiscal policy should be taken in consideration. i am also of the opinion that the parts of the report dealing with the common consolidated corporate tax base would be harmful to my constituency in malta.
in writing. − with this report, the european union today has much stronger legislation. this is an important directive that underpins the safety requirement imposed on pyrotechnic products placed on the eu market. firefighters are in fact expected to demonstrate that their pyrotechnic product is designed and manufactured in accordance with the essential safety rules and bears the ec seal if it is to be sold. this is a good result for european and maltese citizens. harmonisation and updating of technical rules on pyrotechnic products are a means of further improving safety for consumers as well as ensuring the functioning of the internal market and improving the competitiveness of the industry in the eu. all legislation must guarantee the safety of workers and citizens. this development offers particular satisfaction to maltese citizens as the pyrotechnic culture is integral to both maltese identity and national heritage. i believe that the rules we have just approved offer full support to the art of pyrotechnics.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i want to thank you for the views you expressed during the debate. tomorrow you will take a vote on the regulation on the customs enforcement of ipr. with this regulation the eu will continue to set the gold standard at international level in ipr protection by customs. the competitiveness of eu businesses and credibility in the rule of law depend on it. all parties’ rights and obligations are clearly established in the new regulation. i think we have found a very good language regarding medicines, and we now have very clear rules on how to treat medicines when customs enforce intellectual property rights. mr kelly asked about the impact, or how much we could save when implementing this regulation. i think this was taken into account when we broadened the scope of the regulation, setting clear rules for customs officers and clear procedures for right-holders: this should lead to significant savings. every year we produce a report which presents figures about counterfeit goods which are stopped at the european union’s borders, so it will be easy to monitor progress in this area when the regulation comes into force. it will mainly be up to the member states’ customs administrations to implement this. the commission will support the process, including by putting in place the necessary information infrastructure. i am looking forward to a positive vote in this house.
in a time of great economic uncertainty, the greatest challenge today is to achieve a social economy. i therefore believe that we should really embrace the creation of a social europe. i believe we must ensure that all our energy is used to tackle, among other things, the problem of poverty. millions are out of work, the youngest of them; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we therefore want a viable society, while at the same time making the european market a place where investors feel at ease. excessive red tape is a drag on investment, and so i call for simplifying european laws and regulations, to make europe attractive for investment. hence the need to make the benefits of the internal market truly enjoyed by all. it is against this background that, last week, i asked the commissioner-designate for croatia about his views on internal practices in the european internal market, and therefore, to adjust unfair phenomena, including with small countries such as malta.
in writing. − this report by salvatore iacolino sends out a very strong signal from the european parliament about its intention to fight organised crime, corruption and money laundering in the european union. although far-ranging in scope, i urge all the relevant parties to take notice of the recommendations of this report.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report as it is my belief that this report is another step in the right direction for achieving gender equality in the european union. it is only by ensuring that women are given the necessary tools to not only enter but ultimately succeed in the job market that we can ensure true equality and a european economic recovery. however, i must note that i have voted against the amendment regarding the introduction of quotas for women on boards. i believe that women do not need quotas and that the tools provided in this report are more than enough to help create gender equality.
what we have today means that europe will soon be saying it has a common asylum system. higher standards are necessary, respect for human rights is essential. but solidarity is also necessary and essential. last month we heard that the commission was going to put its relocation plans on the shelf. we now have another package where solidarity is once again being ignored. i don't want to hear that everything is wrong. there are things in the whole package that are good, that show improvement and that we have been waiting for. but as a representative of the maltese people, i cannot let this debate end without once again emphasising in the strongest possible terms that the burdens felt by malta are very heavy, for the people and the population of our country. the new form of the dublin regulation does not even touch on the all-important criterion that the responsibility of the asylum seeker lies with the member state in which that person is irregularly present. this is a european responsibility that must be shared. peripheral countries like malta are being left behind. this system is unfair and therefore concrete solidarity needs to be demonstrated as a matter of urgency. let's be clear: the time for small steps is over. the maltese and gozitan people are expecting more. it makes us better.
as a maltese i cannot not speak about the asylum package; the reason is simple: malta is among the countries most faced with the problem of illegal immigration. the package ahead of us is a step forward but now we must take another step and ensure that we have tangible solidarity by addressing the real issues collectively. i would like to emphasise the need for responsibility-sharing, because only responsibility-sharing will result in each member state bearing the burden it can bear. no more and no less. i say this because it is a well-known secret that some countries are carrying far more burdens than they can handle. while there are countries that can certainly bear a greater burden. i hope that this package will lead to each country taking up its responsibility not just in words but in deeds and in reality.
the directive adopted today helps to improve the level of treatment of immigrants, in particular the conditions of detention; as every human being should be. this is a matter of common agreement and malta has always valued every person with the dignity they deserve. but what has been approved today is not enough. it is no longer acceptable that malta continues to be the sole source of the continuous influx of illegal immigrants simply because it is geographically located on the border between the two continents. a year ago i told this parliament that this was the challenge of all of europe. the european immigration pact was a failure, it should never have been made and malta should never have signed it. voluntary, and not mandatory, burden sharing did not work. member states have failed to offer to voluntarily shoulder part of the heavy burden malta is bearing. the maltese and gozitan people are expecting that, in a sense of obligation and in solidarity, member states will go further by introducing strict and fair rules for all, as more member states should shoulder a greater share of the responsibility of the immigration challenge with a mechanism that binds everyone and that bears a fair share of the overall burden. the aforementioned legislative and effective mechanism should be set up without further delay.
in writing. − the eurodac fingerprint database is a necessary and important tool used to fight crime. it would mean that malta’s police force and europol will have access to asylum seekers’ fingerprints, to help them fight terrorism and serious crime. strict data-protection provisions and new safeguards to ensure that data is not used for other purposes, have also been introduced. we need more police cooperation not less. we must be stronger on these issues. i therefore voted in favour of having such a fingerprint database which is strongly in malta’s national interest and will help the prevention of crime across the eu. this is one of the few parts of the common european asylum system that is positive in respect to malta. i repeat that in committee i voted against those other parts of the package that are not in malta’s interest such as the recast of the dublin regulation and reiterate that i will vote against any amendments to the dublin regulation that do not address the core issue of effective solidarity.
in writing. − my voting record regarding the common european asylum system has been consistent. i believe that the ceas is an improvement on the current legislative regime and has valid points, but i firmly believe that it does not adequately tackle the problems facing countries on the periphery of the european union such as malta. the lack of a mandatory burden-sharing system does not guarantee the necessary levels of solidarity in order to ensure that such a system works fairly. in light of this, i have voted against this report on eurodac. i believe that in the present scenario, the establishment of eurodac would impose further additional burdens on small countries like malta which already has the highest amount of irregular immigrants and asylum seekers per capita in the european union.
mrs ashton! my fellow citizens! significant progress has been made since the establishment of the european external action service. but much remains to be done to make it truly fit for purpose. it is important to achieve a geographically balanced representation in senior positions. delegations still have fewer staff from the new member states. the main criterion for evaluation should be competence in foreign policy, not long experience in european union posts. it is also necessary to ensure the professional suitability of the heads of delegation for the challenges in the countries concerned. i have observed in the visits of several parliament delegations that ambassadors are unable to promote cooperation effectively because of their insufficient or no knowledge of the local language. as an example, i can mention the visit of the international trade committee delegation to moscow, where for this reason the necessary contacts were not established to ensure high-level meetings with russian officials. i therefore regarded very positively the fact that representatives of the baltic states have been nominated for high positions in both russia and belarus. it is a sign that the era of caution for our diplomats is over and their professionalism is appreciated. in the context of tomorrow's events, i would like to invite the high representative to establish a representation in turkmenistan, a country of strategic importance not only in energy matters but also geographically located in one of the world's 'hot spots'. i think that the office should be given the right to exercise consular protection functions. this is very important for small member states with a limited network of diplomatic missions. thank you.
the establishment of the european external action service was seen as a major acquisition for europe. we have seen this institution strengthen, go from good to better despite the difficulties and the current economic environment. despite limited resources, the eeas has worked hard to ensure that we all have a stronger voice. this has made it possible to make the european perspective more coherently and effectively heard in the world. of course, there is always room for improvement. there needs to be more occasions where the european union speaks with one voice. this is the only way the european union can continue to take the greatest possible advantage in the world. specifically on this report we are discussing, i would like to deal with one particular point that is very important for countries, malta. this is related to recruitment. during the negotiations in the council to set up the eeas, malta voted to include the requirement on eeas staff and quote: that there be a significant presence of nationals from each member state. while acknowledging the efforts made so far, i would like to see this condition implemented more, and better, in the years to come. in this sense, i welcome paragraph 40 of the recommendation to take all necessary action to address geographical representation at senior levels and in all other grades and positions. this would effectively address the existing deficit and furthermore enable more officials and member states to take the eeas as their own. this will be to everyone's benefit.
the right to treatment of patients is enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the european union should continue to seek to work in collaboration with european health organisations representing european patients to achieve full recognition of the basic right to diagnosis, treatment, therapies and immediate access to medicines. we must respect the importance of national sovereignty in health matters, however, it is time that every european patient who goes to hospital in his own country should be given a definitive period of reasonable waiting time. at the same time, where the state fails to keep its word, the government of that member state should be obliged to ensure that the patient is sent for treatment in a private hospital or, if necessary, even in a hospital abroad. it is important, in such circumstances, to guarantee the right of european patients to be operated on outside their country, and to have their costs reimbursed by their member state after returning to their country. this guarantee for patients, who are european citizens, should be granted without restrictions in order to better protect the interest of the health of our citizens. i stress that this is a crucial point for european patients' rights.
today was an important day for the european maritime sector. the ep voted today for a proposal to incorporate the 2006 maritime labour convention into the port state control directive. the ep voted to set minimum standards for work and conditions on board ships. given the global nature of the maritime industry, it understands that these standards should cover the industry as a whole. substandard ships are no longer needed to ensure and protect workers' rights, increase ship safety and safeguard the environment. shipowners, masters and flag states are responsible for ensuring that ships comply with the relevant rules. however, not all states effectively enforce these rules. this lack of commitment leads to certain ships sailing in poor conditions and threatening both human lives and the marine environment. it is therefore appropriate for the eu to have the mechanisms to verify that the relevant standards are applied to all ships entering eu ports, regardless of the nationality of the seafarers or the flag they fly. this helps to reduce so-called social dumping, which threatens the working conditions of workers and punishes those shipowners who offer decent working conditions in accordance with the rules of the international labour organisation (ilo). in this context, the anti-more favourable treatment clause in the maritime labour convention is important. this means that ships flying the flag of a state which has not ratified the convention shall no longer receive more favourable treatment than those flying the flag of a state which has ratified it. the clause will go a long way towards creating a level playing field in the maritime domain.
i would like to express my agreement with the content of the european commission's communication report blue growth primarily because it forms the maritime part of the europe 2020 strategy. the european union is right to look to the seas as an important resource that can help economic growth in europe. the blue growth report gives a good indication of the potential of the maritime economy in europe to create sustainable and inclusive growth that brings with it job creation. i am making this explanation to highlight three important points. firstly, to emphasize the importance of the point on job creation. i believe that for every policy or legislative initiative we take in the european union we should always bear in mind how it will help create jobs and increase opportunities for sustainable employment. the second point i wanted to make is about the needs of the islands in the european union. it must always be borne in mind that, as far as maritime transport is concerned, the islands of the european union have to bear much higher costs than other coastal areas of the european union. the third and last point i wanted to make is about the cruise industry. i recognise that this is an important economic and tourist resource that leaves a strong impact especially on the neighbouring communities. it is necessary to ensure that these cruise liners are 'energy efficient' and that the development of this industry takes place in a framework that respects the cultural and historical tourism plan of the port areas hosting these cruise liners.
mr president, mr commissioner, i would like to thank my colleague arlene mccarthy for the valuable work she has done on this report, a strong report that points the way forward in the banking sector. as we have seen during the process of this report there is a great need to protect the consumer from the excesses of the banking sector. the derogation of the eighties and nineties, while opening up markets, left us with a situation in which banks could operate with impunity and where the distinction between consumer and investment banks was blurred with very unpleasant consequences. this is also in view of the fact that banks on the european market are of particular importance as they are the main source of financing for medium-sized and small businesses. therefore, there is a need to ensure that this source of funding is protected. i believe that in order to move forward again we need a solid banking base. it is important to build trust in european banks by ensuring that banks do not take excessive risks that ultimately harm the citizen. i believe people should have the peace of mind that their hard-earned money is not being put at risk by banks that take excessive risks. i would like to thank arlene again for her work on this report.
i agree with the spirit of this report especially where it talks about the need for more resources and structures as well as the need for better coordination on measures to combat threats to citizens' health originating from chemical or environmental sources, and therefore i voted in favour. the right to patient treatment is enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i reiterate that the european union should continue to seek to work in collaboration with the european health organisations representing european patients to have full recognition of the basic right to diagnosis, treatment, therapies and immediate access to medicines. it is time that every european patient who goes to hospital in his own country should be given a definitive period of reasonable waiting time. at the same time, where the state fails to keep its word, the government of that member state should be obliged to ensure that the patient is sent for treatment in a private hospital or, if necessary, even in a hospital abroad. it is important, in such circumstances, to guarantee the right of european patients who undergo surgery abroad to have their costs reimbursed by their member state after returning to their home country. this guarantee for patients, who are european citizens, should be granted without restrictions in order to better protect the health interests of our citizens. i stress that this is a crucial point for european patients' rights.
the report by my colleague anni podimata is a very valid one. while i believe that the financial transaction tax can be valid for a number of reasons, i also believe that it is not wise to apply this system at a regional level. at such a delicate time, with regard to the economic situation of european countries, we must be sure not to make hasty decisions on such proposals, which, although well-intentioned, may have negative consequences. it is enough to look at what happened in sweden when they experimented with ftt in the 1990s. in view of all this, i felt i had to vote against this report. i voted against because i believe that the principle of financial transaction tax should be introduced at a global rather than a regional level. i also believe that there are other methods we can work on to ensure that the objectives behind this legislation are still achieved without touching the important principle of country sovereignty on taxation.
in writing. − the safeguarding of democracy and fundamental human rights are the main foundations on which the european union is built. without adequate safeguarding of these rights, the union among us would be useless and would lose its purpose. the situation in hungary is a delicate one. the majority of prime minister orban's government is defending those fundamental rights of citizens, in particular of minorities, and his measures are undermining the institutions that undermine democracy throughout hungary. in view of all this, i voted in favour of the tavares report because i believe that there is a need to send a signal that fundamental rights and democracy are principles that cannot be ignored.
first of all i would like to thank our rapporteur arlene mcarthy for the valuable work she has done on this report. i voted in favour of this report because i firmly believe that the only way we can move forward is by ensuring that we have a strong, transparent and well-founded banking sector. above all, i believe that this report will also give the commission a boost to start working more on the principles of consumer protection in its work. as i explained in my speech yesterday, i believe that this report is an important step forward and, therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − fighting fraud and protecting the financial interests of the european union are crucial to ensuring good governance and good governance of the european union. it is also crucial to safeguard the interests of european citizens. we know from experience that there is a price for fraud. the fraud is worth hundreds of millions of euros. we must therefore ensure that we are ahead of those who want to peddle their wealth at the expense of honest citizens. in times of economic crisis, with calls for spending cuts, we need to implement rules to get money - our european money - back, and use it to stimulate economic growth. so i voted in favour.
in the wake of the scandal, a german minister had said: 'in a democratic state, security is not an end in itself but serves to ensure freedom'. i agree 100 percent. any security program must protect the people and protect the rights, otherwise what purpose is there? in europe we know that orwellian tactics have never worked. the right to privacy is sacrosanct, it reinforces my view that if there is no valid legal reason there should be no restriction on the freedom of our citizens. we must give the authorities all the tools they need to fight crime, but at the same time, we in the european parliament must act as the watchdog and ensure that the rights of our citizens are not being tampered with. today, people are rightly concerned about how surveillance is conducted. we should reassure them that if they follow the law they will never be surveilled. only then can we give legitimacy to this institution which so proudly embraces the principles of democracy.
in writing. – the egyptian army has removed president morsi, suspended parliament, and appointed the chief justice to head an interim government. the country is divided between the followers of the muslim brotherhood and its opponents. the facts of the issue are: 1) a year ago morsi was democratically elected president on the platform of the muslim brotherhood; 2) since then, the country has faced instability in many factors; 3) politically divided recurrent clashes have lead to deaths and the country is approaching civil war. on the one hand there is national unity and stability, on the other a democratically elected president. the wider region is extremely volatile. libya’s stability is continually challenged. syria is in chaos with a threat of spillage into lebanon and possibly jordan. iran is involved in its nuclear ambitions whilst iraq is virtually in civil war. all these, not to mention the israeli-palestinian issue. egypt is seen as the regional power and this is an essential consideration when evaluating whether the army made the right decision in removing a democratically elected president.
the purpose of this report before us is to study the impact of the crisis on the most vulnerable groups. this has two dimensions: the impact of the crisis per se and the additional impact resulting from the response. as rapporteur jean lambert rightly said, the impacts on these vulnerable groups were very extensive. unfortunately, the reality we face is that social services are only as strong as the economy on which they are based. a balance is therefore needed between adequate social services and a disciplined economic policy that is sustainable. i agree 100% with the emphasis being placed on the health sector, especially the effort being made in the member countries to give greater recognition to those working in the field of care. those who care for relatives often have to leave their work, partially or completely, and this should be recognised by the state. for example, by allocating the time they have given for the purpose of eligibility for pensions and other benefits to which they are entitled. a survey has shown that informal care is a more efficient way of providing a service, which is of higher quality and at lower cost. however, many member countries do not have a framework covering these people and there are no guidelines common to all member countries. however, i cannot be in favour of every element included in this report, it is a very good, balanced report and i will support it and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur.
mr president, as a maltese mep, i feel it is my duty to speak out about the strong influx of irregular immigrants that has entered malta over the summer. i must say that as a maltese i am disappointed by the lack of solidarity on the part of european countries shown towards the maltese people as well as towards irregular immigrants. while it is easy to preach from the comfort of one's home, in reality, few countries have actually offered to help malta, and the other surrounding countries to find a solution to this problem. in response to my parliamentary question, commissioner malmström also expressed her disappointment at the lack of assistance malta has received from other member countries in relation to relocation. if there is really a will on the part of the european union and this parliament to solve this human tragedy, then we must continue to insist that this relocation of irregular immigrants be done on a mandatory basis and not on a voluntary one. mr president, the time for fine words on this subject is over. it is time for parliament to take a clear stand - one that makes it clear that solidarity in this area must not be just on paper but based on concrete and effective action. above all, an inflow to malta is an inflow to europe.
i would like first of all to congratulate my colleague antolín on the valuable work he has done on this report. we know well enough that the negotiation of this report was not an easy one. i believe that the success of this dossier can give a new impetus to the european economy. this report, in particular, is convincing because it manages to strike a positive balance between the responsibilities of banks and the rights of consumers. it is important to provide incentives for banks to restart lending to home buyers. on the other hand, i very much welcome the introduction of measures to empower the consumer. in particular, i believe that the reflection period that will be given to the consumer should serve to give the consumer more power in his decision. mr president, the dream of many european families is to own their own home. i believe that this report and the rapporteur's brilliant work will be making a major contribution to making this dream come true for many.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report. conservation of marine biological resources is the fundamental pillar to achieve the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp). the technical measures regulations currently in force are regarded as being too complex, too difficult to understand, control and enforce and are seen as ineffective. i therefore consider it necessary to amend the council regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because of the amendments made in the commission which have improved the text, adapting it to the specific features of the member states' jurisdictions. the subject of registered partnerships and the related subject of the property effects of such partnerships certainly needs adequate harmonisation at european level, especially from a strictly legal point of view. however, as we proposed with the amendments we made, the original text raised some doubts which we thought it appropriate to correct.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report which must be considered, along with the report on matrimonial property regimes (a7-0253/2013), as making it easier for couples to settle property-related issues in case they move to another eu member state or when they are from different countries and own assets abroad. they are an important step forward and enhance legal certainty.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report which must be considered along with the report on registered partnerships (a7-0254/2013) make it easier for couples to settle property-related issues in case they move to another eu member state or when they are from different countries and own assets abroad. they are an important step forward and enhance legal certainty.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report. i agree with its assertion that a european transport-technology strategy for europe’s future sustainable mobility should first and foremost promote quality of service, the convenience of passengers and businesses, and sustainable mobility, and should be based on the union’s targets and legislation regarding the reduction of energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, raw materials and greenhouse gas emissions up to 2020, 2030 and 2050, as well as improving health and quality of life, increasing the quality of services, providing increasingly customised solutions geared ever more closely to users’ needs, and enhancing safety and security; i reiterate the reports’ call on the commission and council, in view of the importance of research and innovation (r&i) to the whole european economy, to recognise the importance of the horizon 2020 initiative and to finance it adequately;
in writing. − the right to see a lawyer from the initial stages of proceedings is essential to building confidence in the rule of law throughout europe. it is crucial that every eu citizen can be sure of receiving a fair trial, irrespective of their nationality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. this new law will mean that anyone who is a suspect anywhere in the eu will be guaranteed the right to see a lawyer from the earliest stages of proceedings until their conclusion. this is a milestone european achievement and one we should be very proud of. i look forward to the adoption of the remaining measures of the procedural rights roadmap.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it allows, through the proposal for a regulation introducing a specific definition of inside information for emission allowances, not to hinder the climate policy objectives of the public authority responsible for reporting obligations. the proposal for a regulation introduces the obligation not for the issuer but for market participants. the information to be communicated concerns the actual activity of the entity concerned and does not in any way constitute additional bureaucratic requirements that would impede the activity of the operating entity by making it inefficient and ineffective. the commission therefore hopes that this will continue, seeking to reconcile compliance with the rules and fair competition with the needs of individual players to be competitive on the market.
in writing. − i believe that this regulation will strengthen the existing framework to ensure market integrity and investor protection provided by the current market abuse directive. the new framework will strengthen the fight against market abuse across commodity and related derivative markets, explicitly ban the manipulation of benchmark, and reinforce the investigative and sanctioning powers of regulators. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i understand that as a consequence of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the powers conferred upon the european commission under regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 need to be aligned to the treaty on the functioning of the european union and i have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the report. it is disappointing that, at a time when the eu is facing challenges to reach its target of reducing the overall energy consumption by 20% by 2020, the funds set aside for energy efficiency from the european structural and investment funds cannot be fully exploited in the current funding period. it is therefore essential that in the financial framework for 2014-2020 care must be taken to facilitate access by local and regional authorities to these funds to avoid a repeat of the situation.
in writing. − whilst i consider that the resolution has some positive elements, such as the calls for the protection of minors and self-exclusion mechanisms, the resolution has a number of elements which are against the interest of the maltese online gambling sector. for instance, it takes a strong stance against so-called unauthorised operators without an additional authorisation in the member state in which they offer their services - that is, maltese operators. also, it calls for black lists, which would discriminate against properly licensed maltese operators, and for national tax regimes to be harmonised. this is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. - mr president, i agree that there should be greater awareness across europe of the need to better regulate the online gaming industry. however, i believe that certain aspects indicated in ms ashley fox's report require further discussion before reaching an agreement. it is good to address the problem of unregulated activity in this sector and to talk about the negative effects on the consumer. it is also necessary to combat crime in this sector. it is also necessary that the european market should function in a way that allows for good conditions and consumer protection. it is premature to talk about a common system of taxation in this sector. this report as it stands discriminates against small countries like malta that have developed and regulated this sector. that is why i voted against this report. the proposed restrictions on operators create prejudices against operators who are regularly licensed by member countries such as malta and in accordance with european law and rules. this sector is essential to the economy of countries like malta because it is the livelihood of thousands of workers and their families. i would like to assure you that in the future there will be a more complete discussion on this sector without the need to attack the economies of small member states such as malta.
in writing. − i voted against this report as it touches upon issues which are fundamental for malta, the gaming industry and my constituents. the report contains a number of positive measures such as calls for protection of minors and for the european commission to take enforcement action against those member states that are in breach of eu law. it also contains a proposal for the consideration of certain measures for player protection, such as self-exclusion mechanisms, which, for example, could take the form of an on-screen button that people can use to immediately end their gaming session if they feel the need to. however, the report makes a number of points which on balance i consider to be unacceptable. for example it proposes a joint definition of legal operators, which is incompatible with maltese legislation. i also could not accept the call for national tax regimes for gambling services to be brought in line with one another; this should remain strictly a member state competence.
in writing. - the possibility of being able to participate and succeed in a single common market was one of the biggest selling points used in malta by the european union in malta's membership campaign back in 2004. it is in this light that i feel a certain irony when i see the content of this report. a report that instead of working towards a single common market in online gambling, with harmonised laws, seeks to turn the clock back in time. this is to the detriment of the citizens whom i represent in this parliament. this report is threatening the livelihoods of thousands of maltese workers working with online gambling companies. companies operating from within malta in compliance with all european union laws. while i understand and share my colleagues' concerns about the abuse that can be committed by minors, i believe that nationalising this market is not the solution. the solution must be one which respects the thinking and ideals of the common market on which this union was founded. in view of all this, i had no other reason than to vote against this report.
implementing the european youth strategy for the first time will give us a unique opportunity to put the tools into action that have the potential to have an impact on those major challenges facing young people today. the importance of investing in young people should not be underestimated. the call in these two reports for more resources to be allocated to this case should be accepted. in particular, i strongly believe that we should cultivate and nurture the entrepreneurship of young people. this ranges from young people being encouraged to use their talents for themselves and to working to promote financial assistance and tax incentives to enable one to start their own business. as the economic outlook for the eu gradually improves and future job creation is projected to increase, we need to ask ourselves whether our labour market will have the skills needed to match the number of jobs that will be created. this is why i agree that over time it is essential to address the gap between workers' skills and labour market needs. this means that there should be better coordination between employers and training institutions to enable young people to improve their employment prospects. i would like to close, madam president, by thanking our two rapporteurs for the useful and excellent work they have done.
thank you commissioner. i would like to join my colleagues in thanking you for the valuable work you are doing in this area. i want to ask you a question. in recent days, there have been several reports in the international media on the commission's proposal on the single market in telecommunications. do you still intend to abolish roaming charges in the european union once and for all? if this is true, i would like to say that i will support you and i will support any initiative you take in this regard.
member of the commission. - mr president, i am very pleased, for many reasons, to take part in this debate on the basis of the work and report just presented, with her usual energy, by mrs corazza bildt. but i do not forget - and i think you will agree with me - the previous work, because it is a step-by-step work that has been carried out, first by mrs gebhardt and then by mrs handzlik, on this service sector which - as you have very well said, mrs corazza bildt - is very important and holds the potential for development, growth and jobs at a time when we need it so much. this directive covers 45% of services and employment in the european union. it must therefore function properly and efficiently. however, it is not enough. we also need to focus our energy on sectors that are sometimes on the margins, little or not covered by this directive, and which are also changing: retail trade - which mrs corazza bildt is actively involved in - and online commerce. i would like to mention by telegram some points that echo the report presented to you today, on the basis of the communication i made in june 2012, to remind you that we have a high level of requirements for the implementation of this directive. first, the zero tolerance policy. this is obvious, the text must be implemented in its entirety. we have therefore set ourselves this zero tolerance objective, a very strict tolerance threshold for member states not to comply with the obligations of the text. in this context, pre-litigation proceedings have been opened against 15 member states. five of them have already complied with the directive and the commission is in contact with the other member states to resolve the remaining problems. secondly, the sector of so-called 'professional' services. in 2012, i launched a peer review to compare different national regulatory models and to identify systems that are less restrictive of freedom of establishment. on the basis of this work, i will shortly be publishing a document which will give an update on the requirements for legal form and capital holding. at the same time we will be presenting a communication on regulated professions, which will call on the member states to undertake, each on their own, a serious and thorough review of their regulation. thirdly, the one-stop shops. in a union of 28 countries, administrative procedures are a headache, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises and often for consumers. it is for small and mediumsized enterprises in particular that the services directive has created these one-stop shops, which do not - or do not all - work properly. i have therefore proposed a single window charter, to be adopted by the member states, which sets new quality standards for a second generation of single windows that work more closely with the internet. the commission will support the member states to the maximum extent possible, but it is up to them to have the necessary ambition to put in place local tools for small and mediumsized enterprises, such as the services directive. fourthly, article 20 of the treaty. consumer protection - i have spoken at length about this in two other debates in plenary this morning - is a priority. this protection responds to the legitimate wish of consumers to purchase goods and services regardless of their place of residence or nationality. in june 2012, the commission published a policy note on the principle of non-discrimination of consumers online, based on the work of your parliament and, in particular, the work of the working group of mr arias echeverría, in which i participated on several occasions. this is how we will help the national authorities. we will also publish a document for consumers and businesses by the end of this year, setting out their rights when they buy goods or services in another member state. ladies and gentlemen, our action goes beyond the services directive, although my priority is clearly to implement all the tools and potential of this directive. i would like to mention in particular a subject which is close to my heart - and not just mine - and that is the social and human dimension of services. i know this is a subject that is at the heart of your discussions. i share your conviction that the internal market in services must be at the service of all: businesses, consumers, but also employees and workers. the deepening of the single market cannot and must not be done at the expense of workers' rights, nor lead to abuse or unfair competition between member states. the services directive is very clear on this point - you paid a lot of attention to it when it was adopted - it does not affect and should not affect labour law. nor does it affect the right to negotiate, conclude and apply collective agreements or to take collective action. it shall not affect the social security legislation of the member states. that said, there is no doubt that we must strengthen our commitment to preventing abuses in the field of posting of workers and intensify the fight against fraud in the social and fiscal fields. this is the meaning of the proposal for a directive on secondment, which is currently before your parliament and the council. in the case of, for example, selfemployed temporary agency workers, the court upheld, in the limosa judgment, the principle of a system of control by the host member state. it is clear, however, both in the approach of the court and in that of the commission, that the measures put in place must be targeted, proportionate to the objectives pursued, that is to say, the fight against fraud to the detriment of persons, men and women. finally, beyond these considerations, i will briefly mention two areas in which we are acting with this balance between freedom of enterprise and social justice. first, retail trade, a sector which represents 11% of the european union's gdp, 29% of the turnover of small and mediumsized enterprises and which employs 33 million people in europe. the action plan for retail trade, which we presented on 31 january, is focused on improving the competitiveness of this sector at european level, on its economic, social and environmental performance. we are now working with the industry to find operational solutions. one of the main obstacles to the development of this sector is precisely, again, unfair trade practices, which can negatively affect investment and create barriers to cross-border trade, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. here again, we are working on solutions with the sector, following our initiative in january 2013. finally, the online trade. many new construction sites have been opened today. the consumer protection report, with the consumer law directives, the alternative dispute resolution, the report on price comparison websites. the payment sector: at the beginning of the summer i proposed a revision of the services and payments directive and measures to regulate interchange fees for the benefit of traders and, above all, consumers. the one on deliveries: i will be presenting a communication on this subject in october. our work also extends to the field of copyright and data protection. i would like to conclude by saying that for us, for myself and for all my teams - i am not the only commissioner concerned by one or another aspect of the services directive - the rigorous, voluntary implementation of this directive remains our priority and a demanding exercise in the strict application of all its provisions. this is happening - i saw it clearly in my visit to each of the capitals, in the meeting i wanted to have in each country with the officials responsible for these texts - through a demanding, rigorous, constructive dialogue with the member states, and to see everything that is really happening, positive or negative, on the ground. i would also like to take this opportunity, in line with the proposals and the dialogue we have with your committee on the internal market and consumer protection and its chairman, mr malcolm harbour, to invite you to participate in person in the single market month, which will begin on 20 september, in a series of online debates. i do not expect complacency, not one-way dialogue, but rather a lot of interaction, criticism, proposals. we will work with platforms in 24 languages, to be the most accessible and the closest to the citizens in each of the countries of the european union. i think that among the four major themes we have chosen for each of the next four weeks - online commerce, social rights, banking and employment - many of the themes are in line with the content and potential of the services directive. i would also like to see us discussing, on the ground, how this directive is being used or not being used properly for the benefit of jobs and growth in each of the next four weeks.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − during this period of substantial unemployment in several member states of the european union it is more crucial than ever to unlock the full potential of the internal market with a view to stimulating growth and creating more and better jobs. in view of the dire economic realities in many member states, it has become important and crucial to implement these changes in time. i would like to commend my colleague corazza bildt for her work on this subject and i am pleased to note that certain aspects of the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs are contained in this same report. furthermore, i welcome the attention being paid to the single contact points which have been of confirmation and enhance the creation of start-ups. in this respect, i also welcome the reference to the digital single market and the attention paid to ensuring the full implementation of the respective directive. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the digital single market and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on digital single market. finally, i would like to note that this is a carefully balanced report and i am therefore happy to support it.
in writing. – in face of the state of the union, we also need to stress the insufficiencies of european policies. i want to draw attention to the phenomenon of precarious work, which knows no limits. it is urgent to address the hardship that this places upon our citizens. precarious work brings with it social problems, such as poverty and social exclusion, and it is detrimental to working conditions and rights of workers. i remind parliament and the commission of a 2010 resolution on precarious work and female workers, and a follow-up on the actions that have been taken since. the time is also ripe for a plan that addresses precarious work amongst youth. the eu needs to recognise that precarious work is eroding the very heart of our society. it leads individuals to live at the risk of poverty. member states have an obligation to find efficient solutions. in this context, i cannot but praise the current initiatives by the maltese government to tackle precarious work; its example should be followed by both the commission and other member states. such concrete measures would send a strong message of hope.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, because it recognises that linguistic diversity is an essential part of european cultural heritage, and because it calls on us to be attentive to discrimination against small and/or vulnerable languages. however, the eu institutions should set an example in their call to preserve languages, by ensuring that official eu languages can be used at least within its own premises. as an official eu language, maltese interpretation should be available not only for plenary sessions, but also during committee meetings.
in writing. − the european parliament approved a report dealing with linguistic diversity and european languages in danger. the purpose of this report is to find ways of using this diversity in the interest of the european peoples while stimulating activity, interest and innovation in less widely used languages. i have often stressed the importance of linguistic diversity. like the diversity in nature, the diversity in european languages and cultures is an important part of the living heritage that underpins the sustainable development of our societies and must therefore be safeguarded in order to remain strong among us. linguistic diversity enhances cultural heritage at local, regional and national level but it is also an intrinsic european value that we need to recognise and make good use of in order to create opportunities for ourselves and future generations. knowledge of languages increases employment opportunities for everyone. the promotion of all languages in the european union, both established and endangered, is an important challenge for us. languages confirm the roots of european culture and it is good that this knowledge is spread especially among young people to defend what has shaped europe over the centuries. the european union's policy on multilingualism insists on the importance of european citizens speaking two languages in addition to their mother tongue. this is an ambitious challenge. we must facilitate exchanges and opportunities for our students to learn new languages. this opportunity for future generations increases employment opportunities and at the same time fills our economies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, because of the need to keep involving our youth in todayʼs civil society. preventing youth from disengaging is crucial at any time, but especially in times of economic and social hardship. with unemployment rates of over 50 % in some countries amongst this generation, we need to address this as a self-standing issue and allocate funds where they are most needed. with employment initiatives and education programmes, this youth strategy is an important step that enables us to offer prospects to our youth all over europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is also our responsibility to give youth a future. unemployment, especially amongst youth, is a symptom, not the cause of the problem. we must strive hard to implement policies that address the cause of unemployment amongst the younger generation. i believe that by exploring all possibilities for stimulating economic growth, we can create new job opportunities. if we want to create a social europe, a europe that listens and is built on solidarity, then we need to engage in ensuring a good future for this generation. austerity measures did not bear fruit. it is understandable that trust in europe has been lost. if we want to regain this, we must work towards promoting a europe that helps and empowers the most vulnerable in society. this report is a step in this direction. however it should be noted that i voted against elements in the text that call for further coordination of pension systems.
in writing. − this is a difficult time for young people in terms of the labour market. in june 2013, 23. 5 per cent of young people were unemployed. in a number of member states, the figure exceeds 50%. the economic crisis has created a difficult situation for young people looking for work. in fact, young people are hit harder during a crisis because unemployment can last for a long time with the risk of causing social exclusion. for this reason i welcome the report that was approved on the challenge of youth unemployment and how we can overcome this problem. this is a timely report and is intended to study all types of unemployment affecting young people and what kind of solutions we can offer young people at european level. this report deals with topics such as the youth guarantee; mobility, emigration, the education system as well as the role of the private sector. to meet this challenge it is crucial to invest in more training including on-the-job training as well as in more fiscal incentives. this is while further supporting companies participating in the youth guarantee scheme. i stress the importance of the youth guarantee and the need to integrate it into the framework of national labour markets policy. the youth guarantee has a budget of six billion euro and aims to guarantee that young people under the age of 30 are offered work and training. this scheme helps to offer young people alternatives in cases of unemployment.
in writing. − i agree with the conclusions of the report and have voted in favour. the commission should focus its efforts on those service sectors with the greatest economic relevance, since this can produce results in terms of growth and jobs, even in the short term. i believe that effective enforcement of existing rules is the best way of achieving such objectives. i also agree with the proposal to develop european standards for services in an effort to improve cross-border comparability; however, these should remain strictly voluntary.
since being elected member of the european parliament i have addressed this institution several times on irregular immigration. i continue to insist that more needs to be done, that everyone, including malta, needs to bear part of the burden of this human tragedy. however, while making these calls, i hope we all agree that there is no compromise when it comes to child protection. as a representative of the maltese people, i welcome this report which improves the situation and conditions faced by unaccompanied children in the european union. i am pleased to see that this report asserts that these children should not be placed in detention centres. the protection and best interests of the child shall be the primary concern of any policy. we have heard and seen stories of children who have gone on such amazing journeys. they saw death in their faces. they've been through trauma. that's not right. we have an obligation to these children. we say this because we believe in a europe that believes in the dignity of every person.
in writing. − the first part of amendment 21 of this report deals with irregular immigration. i voted in favour of the first part of this amendment because malta is suffering from this problem. following the arrival of a substantial number of migrants in malta on 3 and 9 july, european commissioner cecilia malmstrom expressed 'great concern' at the speech of maltese prime minister joseph muscat after he indicated the possibility of these people being sent back to libya without being allowed to make a formal asylum claim. i then asked the commission to explain how europe will help malta and assist the maltese islands to cope with this difficult and critical situation. i regret that the only answer i received from the commissioner was that malta has received from the eu, since 2007, the amount of €84. 96 million in aid. the maltese people are not happy with this response. this is not a question of money. this is a matter of solidarity with facts and action. the first part of clause 21 explains how irregular immigration puts pressure on the maritime borders of eu member countries. this is what malta is facing. the eu should have a binding and non-voluntary burden-sharing agreement on immigration. malta will continue to deal with this problem in the most serious, responsible manner, with respect for the people involved as well as with respect for international laws.
in writing. − parliament voted today on an important report on the creative and cultural sectors and how they boost economic growth and create jobs. these sectors incorporate a network of small, medium and large organisations active in a number of sectors such as the fields of art, architecture, cultural heritage, design, festivals, cinema, television, visual arts, archives, libraries, radio etc. according to a 2010 report on competitiveness in europe, these sectors together represent 4. 5 per cent of gdp and provide 8. 5 million jobs in the eu. this is a substantial amount that is continuing to grow and studies confirm the economic importance of these sectors at a time when europe has been hit by recession. i come from a country that considers traditional arts and culture to be an important part of its heritage. malta has a culture spanning seven thousand years from the temple culture to modern times. the recognition and preservation of this cultural heritage is an essential element of social and political life in malta. it is very important that member states recognise that this sector needs access to funds to continue to grow. we should have a favourable regulatory and taxation framework while strengthening the tools and programmes available to these sectors.
this plenary session comes just days after one of the greatest tragedies in the mediterranean, when dozens of people lost their lives near lampedusa after the boat that was supposed to take them to a better future sank. this week we will also have a discussion on migration in the mediterranean. i hope that this discussion will go far beyond words which, in reality, do little to address the problems. this tragedy is a strong call for us as the european union to do something feasible. i would like to recall the tragedy of the yiohan ship in december of seventeen years ago, in which nearly 350 people died. i cannot say that this tragedy has been a lesson, because otherwise such tragedies would not happen. i therefore hope that the tragedy of lampedusa teaches every country a lesson about the responsibilities that everyone must bear: something malta has really been advocating for.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs fraga, and the fisheries committee for this report and also mr mato, who presented it. indeed the pacific region is of high interest to the european union – nearly 60 % of the global tropical tuna catch originates from this region. as the world’s biggest importer of fish, the european union has a clear interest in developing a fisheries strategy in the pacific. let me recall the main priorities for european union action in the pacific: first, sustainable fisheries in line with sound scientific advice; second, the fight against iuu fishing; and third, building the capacity of small island states to increase their good fisheries governance. in line with our communication on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy, the commission is committed to continue promoting sustainable, responsible and transparent fisheries in the waters of its partners. we will also promote the development and implementation of sea-based regional strategies for sustainable fisheries in the pacific. i am very happy to see that the european parliament endorses these same principles and objectives in the region. the importance of the european union as a market state explains the european union’s active participation in the western and central pacific fisheries commission, even if the european union’s fishing presence is relatively low. however, as the report also suggests, we are endeavouring to strengthen the eu presence in the region. in this respect, i hope that parliament will support the conclusion of the new protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement with kiribati. let me say in this context that the commission can, in principle, accept the vessel days (management) scheme used by parties to the nauru agreement, as along as it is implemented under specific conditions that are mentioned in this report. it needs to be fully transparent and its provisions need to be improved to enable it to fulfil its objectives and ensure full compatibility of measures taken both in the exclusive economic zones and in the high seas. fisheries play a key role for many small island states and the commission is supportive of their rightful ambitions, while ensuring their overriding goal of sustainable fisheries and improved governance. as underlined in your report, these goals should be achieved with an integrated approach in the region, ensuring the coherence of all the different european policies. the commission is committed to ensuring coherent intervention in the region, in order to better integrate fisheries development, environment, trade and other policies, to further advance the objectives of sustainable and responsible fisheries governance. let me conclude by welcoming, once again, this very timely initiative.
in writing. – i would like to state my opinion on the comprehensive eu fishery strategy in the pacific region. without entering into the merits of the recommendation itself, i would like to make an important observation on the procedure which was used to compile the recommendation. i am informed by the ambassadors and experts concerned that no discussions were held with them regarding these recommendations. the pacific region consists of fourteen states and territories. their main resource is large areas of sea. the fish industry is therefore essential for the development of these archipelagos. also, having visited the fourteen territories i find it hard to believe that a recommendation can be made without visiting these countries. i am convinced that these two factors: a) lack of consultation and b) lack of personal awareness of the difficulties of these countries and territories have led to a flawed recommendation.
we have a proposal before us that is not without controversy: some people want it this way, some people want it that way. however, i think there is a consensus (to say nothing of the controversy) that we must do our utmost to save as many lives as possible, particularly the lives of young people. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. and i want to thank the new maltese commissioner, who is here, for bringing malta's reputation back up to the level it deserves because, as i said, the controversy has done a lot of damage to countries. here we have to make the choice, and the real choice that parliamentarians have to make is to choose the lives of citizens, to see that the health of the individual, of our citizens, comes first and foremost - before the interests of the tobacco companies. this is a unique opportunity for young europeans, an opportunity which, unfortunately, i was not given when i was the age of young europeans today. so let us be brave, let us save many lives, let us have the courage to say, 'europe's citizens come first. ' the
member of the commission. − mr president, unfortunately commissioner potočnik cannot be here today as he is on an official visit to japan and so he asked me to attend today’s debate on the revision of a key piece of european legislation, the environmental impact assessment directive. for more than 25 years this directive has played an important role in helping public authorities and developers assess the environmental benefits and costs of certain projects. it has helped improve the evidence base for public decisions. it has also led to more public involvement, and this has generally strengthened the quality of decisions taken in the european union. as a result, investments have been made in a much more sustainable way. by establishing common principles for the environmental assessment of projects, the directive has helped create a level playing field for developments right across the union. however, the time has come to modernise the current directive in the light of new scientific developments, align it with the principles of smart regulation, and make it a more effective and efficient instrument for smart and sustainable growth. to make the directive more effective, we need to modernise it to assess issues such as climate change and biodiversity, improve the quality of eia reports, monitor adverse impact on the environment and make decision-making more transparent. to make the directive more efficient and predictable for developers, we need to streamline the process from the beginning, coordinate the various environmental assessments and introduce clear time frames for the key phases of the process. your work on the review of the directive shows that you share these objectives. i would like, on behalf of mr potočnik, to thank mr zanoni for his thorough work on the commission’s proposal, as well as the shadow rapporteurs and rapporteurs of the committee on petitions and the committee on transport. i am aware that your internal discussions on this file have not been easy. we also just heard that from mr zanoni. this is not surprising since the experience accumulated after more than 25 years of applying the directive varies across the member states. moreover the directive covers several industrial sectors, as it applies to many different project categories. despite these difficulties, i am convinced that the report that you will vote on strikes a good balance between all the interests that you represent. even if we share the same objectives, the report sometimes proposes different means to achieve them. let me briefly raise a number of key aspects of the commission proposal. one is scoping, meaning the initial stage of the eia. everyone agrees that scoping accelerates and simplifies the whole process by providing more legal certainty for developers and authorities and by ensuring a level playing field across the european union. this is why we propose that it should be mandatory, as is already the case in half of the member states. in addition, scoping is now mandatory for energy projects, as recently agreed between this house and the council for the ten-e regulation. another key issue is the quality of eia reports. the commission has proposed an accreditation system for the experts preparing or verifying such reports, or the creation of committees of national experts. we strongly believe that this system can provide the necessary guarantees of independence and technical competence and thereby enhance public acceptability for many projects. as with scoping, many member states already have accreditation systems in place. another important objective of our proposal is to avoid duplication of assessments. in order to achieve this we have included a number of elements, for example one-stop shops or a definition of monitoring arrangements. finally i would like to say a few words on what mr zanoni also mentioned on shale gas. i know this is an issue which is not part of the commission's proposal, but it has been an important point in the debate in the european union. in your resolution of last year you called for an amendment of the annexes to the eia directive. as you know, the commission as part of its work programme for 2013 this year is preparing a specific initiative on this, which is the sign to address precisely this issue. we would agree with the purpose, as we just heard it, that if europe wants – and when some of our member states want – to do shale gas, we must be sure that we do it in a way that can be defended from an environmental point of view and we should avoid repeating some of the mistakes others have made in this field. so we will, of course, take into account any further proposals from this house in the context of our work on this shale gas initiative. mr president, i strongly believe that the report presented to you and to parliament is a solid basis for negotiations between the institutions and i would urge you to adopt it so that those negotiations can begin. in any case, the commission will examine very carefully the amendments voted here today. the commission hopes for a timely opening of trialogues on the revision of the eia directive with a view to finding a mutually agreeable outcome between all institutions as soon as possible. i appeal to you today to support that objective and work towards a modern, streamlined and more effective environmental impact assessment directive.
rapporteur for an opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. − as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, i supported the changes to this directive proposed by the european commission because i believe that the environment knows no borders, as many projects at european level have shown. i also believe that action at european level adds value to projects and outweighs work at national level. i have focused on a number of amendments which i believe could improve this directive. i believe that projects protecting cultural heritage should be exempted from this directive. this is to recognise the importance of cultural heritage on the collective identity of our peoples. the tourism dimension has been given greater importance in this directive. the implementation of a number of projects may have a negative effect on tourism, which in turn may have a negative impact on the economy, especially in those countries that depend on tourism. any impact assessment carried out should recognise the important role of tourism on our societies. yes, europe needs direct regulation on environmental impact assessments, which is strengthened in the interest of economic efficiency and for the benefit of the environment and human health. this is thanks to a directive allowing simplified and fairer procedures in the interest of economic development.
in writing. − unemployment causes severe hardship, and people who are affected by the current economic crisis cannot be left alone. the globalisation adjustment fund can give hope to the people involved.
in writing. − this application concerned 529 redundancies, of which 480 are targeted for european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) co-funded measures. the report calls for all necessary efforts to be made, in order to accelerate the mobilisation of this instrument, and evaluates positively the improved procedure put in place by the commission. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which concerns an application involving 1 030 redundancies, of which 1 010 are targeted for european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) co-funded measures. the report calls for all necessary efforts to be made, in order to accelerate the mobilisation of this instrument, and evaluates positively the improved procedure put in place by the commission. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − corruption undermines the effectiveness of governance and of institutions that uphold democratic principles. in addition, it affects people who are the most disadvantaged, by closing them off from access to health, housing, or education. this should be combated in the eu, but we also need to take a stand against practices like this in our external action.
in writing. − the report requests all eu enterprises to fulfil their corporate responsibility to respect human rights in third countries and emphasises the need to develop and update the standards of behaviour and the code of conduct for peace and stability operations to adequately reflect efforts against corruption both in missions and in mission areas. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i agree with the conclusions of this report and have voted in favour of its adoption. in particular i welcome the assertion in the report that on account of its multiannual, long-term and horizontal character, cohesion policy is necessarily a policy with a strong forward-planning component and that, given its significant share of the eu budget, it needs to have a prominent place in all forward-looking budgetary planning.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which calls for a number of changes to the brussels i rules on jurisdiction in the field of employment law.
in writing. - smoking is deadly. three years ago in 2010 26% of men and 9% of women died from lung cancer. 800 people have died in recent years in malta from this condition and many thousands have died across the european union. this legislation will make it more difficult for people to start smoking and there will be regulation for the tobacco industry and people will be discouraged from starting to smoke. we are obliged to draw a clear line and give the rapporteur a mandate. she has my full support.
having worked closely for several years in local government and also as a member of the committee of the regions of the european union, i cannot but appreciate the fact that the rapporteur cooperated with the same committee and even welcomed several suggestions made to him. i agree with the statement in the report that local and regional authorities are being hit hard by the economic crisis and by cuts in national budgets. and what are the consequences, mr. president? who are the victims? the victims are those seeking work, including millions of young people. victims are those persons who are living in poverty, or at risk of poverty and who are socially excluded. this is a widespread problem in all countries, not least in countries. and here i want to say that we're talking about 23. 4% of the population of the european union. this clearly shows that local and regional authorities need support and we want to see that the measures taken have the least possible impact.
in writing. − one of the biggest problems facing the european union today is the disparity in the distribution of wealth between the core and peripheral member states. for many of these states, the consequences of the financial crisis are especially problematic. it is in this context that the structural funds offered by the european union take on a different importance. these funds can, and should, be used to make a positive impact on the lives of citizens. the regions are disproportionately affected by the economic reforms under way. this is leading to a significant number being lost. i believe, therefore, that this report should give a positive impetus to encourage more flexibility in the way these structural funds are used for the benefit of those who need them. in view of all this, i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − as in the mediterranean region, a long-term fisheries strategy is also necessary in the pacific region. i support other member states on issues of common interest that pertain to the need of a level playing field with third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report that recommends that a long-term fisheries strategy be established for the western and central pacific area. this plan will take into account the need for greater coordination of eu policies in order to enhance potential synergies, achieve a multiplier effect of mutual benefit to the pacific states and the eu countries and raise the eu’s profile in this region.
in writing. − it is necessary to have a common understanding about the fisheries in european waters, and to solve potential conflicts arising from it. cooperation and structured dialogues are essential, as well as an integrated maritime policy.
in writing. − the conference of presidents gave its unanimous approval to the draft interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the european central bank on cooperation on procedures related to the single supervisory mechanism in september 2013. i agreed with this position and i voted in favour.
in writing. − i particularly welcome the call in this report for an updated system for defining boat design categories and the proposal requiring an emergency stop device for tiller-controlled outboard engines. i therefore voted in favour.
the creation of the single european market has probably been the european union's greatest success. this market has enabled many countries to grow economically in peacetime. however, this market is not a complete one. unfortunately, the free movement of persons within the european union has for many years been hampered by this problem: the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the european year of lifelong learning in the field of lifelong learning. the sa vergnaud report is a very important step forward in ensuring that this problem is solved. the introduction of a european professional card is very important to ensure further standardisation of qualifications in europe. above all, this report will give more incentives and opportunities, both to european businesses, and to our young people, to find more opportunities and succeed in their careers and professions. in view of this, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − with this report the introduction of a european professional card has been greenlighted, which will make the administrative and practical burdens much lighter for workers and young people who want to work abroad. in the internal market, this is an important step, all the more so since the report includes an alert system that will protect patient safety by informing all member states when a doctor is no longer allowed to practice.
in writing. − i welcome the modernisation of the existing provisions of directive 2005/36/ec, including the provision for a new european professional card and the modernisation of the rules on the free provision of services. in particular, the report improves the conditions for the recognition of traineeships. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour and i welcome the conclusion of an agreement with armenia on facilitating the issue of short-stay visas.
in writing. − i voted in favour and i welcome the obligations agreed to by armenia with regard to readmitting its own nationals and former nationals, as well as third-country nationals and stateless persons.
in a world that is becoming increasingly globalised, the european union should not be afraid to broaden its horizons. therefore, this bilateral agreement between china and the european union is of great importance. it is very significant that this parliament, for the first time, has the power to conduct this kind of negotiations with large countries like china, which will be very fruitful for investment within europe. this is not only a symbolic agreement, however, but also one of very high commercial value. this agreement will lead to more free access to investment between the two sides. the positive aspect is that this agreement also takes into account other things, such as greater access to justice, as well as a greater emphasis on social and environmental aspects. in view of this, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − with this vote, the parliament gave a mandate to start negotiations with china for an investment agreement. this can be beneficial for both the eu and china. it opens the doors to finding mutual benefits and working towards a partnership by keeping up high-level dialogues.
the civil war currently raging in syria is creating a great human tragedy that we cannot remain indifferent to. as a european community that has been through so many wars, we have an obligation to ensure that all these people seeking refuge and asylum within the european community are granted this asylum. only such asylum shall respect the dignity of the person. for this to happen, responsibility needs to be shouldered not just by a small number of states, but by all. if we can only use the dignity of these people, then it will be preserved. concrete assistance should therefore be provided to all those countries experiencing a strong influx of people fleeing this conflict. above all, however, we must not forget that the only final solution to this tragedy is to find a solution for peace in syria itself.
in writing. − we have to show solidarity with the refugees coming from syria in this tragic civil war, and closely monitor that solutions are reached in the most peaceful way possible. at the same time, it is good that this resolution stresses that a more coherent approach and greater solidarity is needed with member states facing particular pressure in the reception of refugees from syria. this is a european challenge and not that of one country or the other. given the turmoil in the region, malta cannot be left alone to face this challenge.
question for the blue paper. other i would like to ask whether mrs le pen is telling us that when a boat is in distress and sinking, she will save the lives of these immigrants. well, there we agree. but if they have persecution in their own countries, we send them back and they're still killed by their own dictatorial governments. what is mrs le pen suggesting?
i had another speech prepared for today, but that speech we are not going to make. i have feelings of sadness and anger over what happened in lampedusa. what we saw shocked us. the mediterranean cannot be transformed into a cemetery where aspirations and dreams end. we cannot allow crops and deaths to become statistics. it can't be that what we've seen and experienced will happen again. europe needs to show serious, wise and moral pro-life leadership. let's have the courage to not just express our condolences on twitter, but to propose holistic systems that work. we need to give more tools to the authorities to tackle organised crime. laws are needed to take people rescued in frontex operations to the nearest and safest place. we need to give much more development aid to african countries to get them back on their feet. we need to help libya to create an asylum system in that country. we must explore the possibility of making asylum applications also in third countries to end dangerous sea journeys. we must propose laws to make every member of the union, including malta, bear its responsibility, as far as it is able. we need to facilitate the process so that those who are not entitled to protection are returned safely. now, madam president, it is time for strong leadership, we have talked too much in the air. we need to start thinking differently and we need to come up with other solutions.
i have been hearing about this debate for ten years in this parliament. many premises were built, little progress was made, and malta and lampedusa were left alone. they have been left to their own devices in the wake of the tragedy of the past few days. let us not be deceived, not only 280 died in the mediterranean sea. many hundreds more died. and the member states have turned a blind eye and left malta and italy alone. i hope you feel guilty about this crime taking place in the mediterranean. and so we must today, from words, move to deeds. no more papers, madam commissioner, no more conferences, no more visits to lampedusa or malta: we must now move on to concrete action, genuine and not tacit solidarity, commissioner. and to the member states, i say, we need a real common immigration policy. do not be complicit with the criminals who are exploiting these immigrants because if more people die then you will be complicit in this heinous crime again.
"never again. "of the shame. "words that have come to this room today. after this tragedy, everyone came to their senses. everyone was shocked. the countries affected, such as italy and malta, have been calling for concrete aid, for solidarity in action, for years. malta, as well as lampedusa and italy, were left alone, as they are the first islands to be geographically reached from upper africa. malta and the neighbouring countries can no longer bear the burden alone. and you all know that. the council and the commission have known this for a long time. pope francis - i quote him after the tragedy in lampedusa: "shame on you. and we should be ashamed. "we all feel the loss of these poor people who lost their lives. frontex, eurosur, task force, all are good and should be strengthened without any excuses. we must admit that, so far, the european union has failed, and failed badly, in the face of this problem. i would like to stress once again, as i have done in other speeches and on other occasions, the need for solidarity between member states in an agreement to share the burden of this problem fairly: an agreement that is binding and no longer voluntary.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what happened in lampedusa is just the tip of the iceberg of a much larger phenomenon: the spread of the disease. on the coast of sicily, in recent months i have seen dead people lined up in the provinces of catania, syracuse and ragusa. the tragedy of lampedusa is only the greatest tragedy that has occurred in recent times. we cannot think that those rows of coffins are not a sign of european failure. that is why we ask you, commissioner, to be bold in your proposal. we are asking you very strongly to come forward with something new and effective and parliament, as a co-legislator, will certainly be at your side in the fight against a council which is today quite incapable of tackling the issue, leaving the task to a few states alone. one last thing, remember that we are approving the new legislative packages of all the european programmes. we are adopting the same measures for these islands which are so affected as those adopted for the aegean islands or for the more peripheral non-european islands.
we are still shocked by the tragedy of lampedusa. solidarity between the member states but i am reminded of the tragedy of christmas eve some 17 years ago. 350 people died that day: their grave became the mediterranean. we didn't learn then, we hope to learn today. we need to understand that this is a european challenge, and therefore we need more commitment from the member states. the assistance from the european union shall be comprehensive and holistic. above all, it must be effective and lead to tangible results. i ask, where is the solidarity? i mention italy, the neighbouring countries and malta. malta cannot be left alone, mr president. we must see that the european union understands and recognises the need to really recognise the responsibility of fair sharing. i believe that the tools, systems and structures that exist within the european union do not include the mechanism that really leads to tackling this crisis.
we have to accept that initiatives like eurosur are very important. in countries like malta and italy, we live with the problem of immigration every day. we have been praying for years for a concrete solution. unfortunately, our justified requests have so far fallen on deaf ears. in addition to eurosur and frontex, actions are being taken to help asylum seekers and their host countries: help to find a future in their own country, relocation for those who flee, integration programmes, consider freedom of movement, as well as opening a dialogue with a country such as libya, from where they are leaving, to control departure. we have insisted that malta cannot be left alone to resolve these situations. whoever entered malta entered europe. malta's problems are europe's problems. where is the solidarity that is the foundation of the european union? to solve each state's financial problems, each state was called upon to lift its own burden. but we seem to be doing a great deal to help the countries at europe's doorstep, which are hosting thousands of people seeking refuge from the violence in their own countries. the time of parole has expired. let us show by our actions what the solidarity of the union means. if not, we are all passing time to each other, to our citizens and to those sick people who turn to us for help.
as i said in the previous discussion, when it comes to irregular immigration, i emphasised that we have to look at this situation holistically. we need to see the whole picture and not just some part of it. an important part of any solution is to focus on fighting organised crime, organised crime where the victims are the most vulnerable. the european border surveillance system, with an investment of almost 250 million euro, will strengthen border control and surveillance. we welcome above all the fact that, in addition to cooperation between member states to combat the most serious crimes of crime and trafficking in human beings, a serious contribution is being made to protecting and saving the lives of those people trying to enter europe. this reduces the number of deaths in the region. this is the system that the authorities need. i am pleased to note, in conclusion, that it will enter into force in december next year in countries such as malta and i assure you that it will thereby enhance security and save lives.
in writing. − i agree that the european parliament should consent to the conclusion of this agreement. in particular, the importance of providing adequate technical and humanitarian support to jordan and of furthering political and economic dialogue between the eu and jordan should be highlighted. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - every member of this parliament agrees that the external borders of the european union and the lives of immigrants should be better protected. this is the purpose of the new eurosur system for border surveillance and i therefore describe this new system as a step forward, just as was the development at the meeting of home ministers this week in luxembourg where a proposal was put forward for the establishment as soon as possible of a task force to address migration in the mediterranean. however, we are still far from a solution to the problem of illegal immigration, and i hope that no one will take advantage of these steps to delay concrete steps. malta cannot be left alone in all this. the eu needs to recognise malta's needs by providing effective assistance and fair sharing of responsibility. the time to take concrete steps is now. it would be irresponsible to sit on our hands after the tragedy of lampedusa. let us take concrete action now because we have lost too much time. a waste of time that led to the deaths of hundreds, if not thousands of people. we have a great responsibility to bear. let us take it because the call we are receiving is to take action today before tomorrow.
in writing. − i agree with the ban on placing on the market of portable batteries and accumulators containing cadmium and the call for waste batteries to be readily removable from end-of-life equipment. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − i support this motion for a resolution, in particular its call for a more ambitious vision concerning how to shape law enforcement data-sharing in the eu, while guaranteeing a robust level of data protection and privacy.
in writing. − caste-based discrimination, or any kind of discrimination based on a person’s descent, occupation, religion, disability, age or sexual orientation, should be combated very strongly. in many cases it leads to social exclusion and poverty, which we cannot tolerate. it is important that the eu sends out a strong signal on this matter.
in writing. − the eu should use all available tools to combat discrimination. there is also a need to ensure that eu development aid reaches marginalised groups. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − as a member of the committee on petitions, i welcome this annual report and acknowledge all the work done by the committee. i have therefore voted in favour.
two weeks ago, in this very chamber and in this very building, we had a moving debate on the ongoing serious tragedy in the mediterranean of irregular migrants as well as emotional ceremonies to remember the victims of lampedusa. we had a moving speech by commissioner cecilia malmström. the european union is also committed to the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. two weeks have passed since then. i ask you: what happened? the answer is: absolutely nothing! the mediterranean has continued to become a graveyard of innocent victims with another tragedy near lampedusa. malta and italy alone have done their best to save as many lives as possible; and this despite being left alone again. i ask you: where is the respect for human life? where is the solidarity we talk about? where is the european union in the face of this tragedy? where are the member states? so far we have heard only words, no concrete action! if europe remains passive, more people are dying and will continue to die. without further delay a fair agreement and a fair burden-sharing mechanism is needed. agreement binding the member states and the european union. this is what must be done and which i guarantee will be the result of this week's european summit. no less than that. the parole is up, we're waiting for action.
in writing. − i have voted in favour. i agree that for the benefit of the environment and for the reduction of hazardous waste, the recycling of eu-flagged ships should be encouraged through further development of framework policies.
in writing. − statistics play a pivotal role in drawing up policies in the eu. it is important to monitor changes and challenges in the demographic situation throughout the union, in order to ensure that quality policies can be adopted which address the people who most need them.
in writing. − i agree that there should be a common framework for european union statistics on demography, through the collection, compilation, processing and transmission by the member states of harmonised data on population and vital events to use for union purposes. i have voted in favour.
it is always important to discuss sustainable development, the main objective of which must always be to improve the standard of living for all, but in particular for the most deprived. so the first thing that comes to mind are the millions of european citizens who are living in poverty. our target is to reduce the number of people living in poverty by 20 million by 2020. to achieve this goal, the work and cooperation of local authorities, as well as civil society, is needed. but the key question is whether we are on the right track to actually reach that goal. it is true that certain initiatives have been taken, but cutting funds in several areas will not help to achieve this goal. more and more we are seeing that it is those in poverty, or at risk of poverty, who are most suffering the consequences of the measures being taken to really combat economic and even financial problems. therefore, there is a need to give a greater role to local and regional authorities, and also to civil society.
in writing. − i agree with the calls for a renewed and more ambitious policy in support of civil society, and i have voted in favour.
education is the cornerstone of all development. the future of any country depends on progress in this area. if we are to achieve our goals, we need to strengthen our commitment to children and young people reaching ever higher educational levels. it is unfortunate that we still have a substantial number of young people who leave school at an early age, many of whom also leave without basic skills and then find it difficult to find decent employment, often at the risk of remaining socially excluded for life. it was a wise step to approve the youth employment guarantee scheme, but it is certainly not enough. we must insist that each country has education systems that aim at labour markets competent for the challenges of the future. only then can we ensure a better future for our children.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because education is the key solution to the crisis and the terrible levels of unemployment in the european union. the current educational model is outdated and does not reflect today's changed society. the role of education must go far beyond merely being a means of achieving economic goals in european strategies. the main mission of education lies in preparing people for life as well as creating active citizens within increasingly complex societies. in the complexes. in the current economic turmoil both in europe and in the world, one of the biggest challenges is unemployment and people's ability to secure their livelihoods. the fight against unemployment must be our first objective, and this is where education and training have a full part to play. in march 2013 unemployment among young people up to the age of 25 in the eu reached 23. the commission shall: at the same time there were two million jobs that were left unfilled. we therefore need to re-evaluate education by concentrating on informal learning through work among youth organisations, on partnership between universities and the business sector and, no less important, on improving the european education system in general. even if the youth guarantee scheme cannot replace the structured work and reforms needed in the member states' education systems to meet the challenges of the future, i can only call on the member states to implement the european youth guarantee as soon as possible.
in writing. − i have voted in favour. i agree that the rule of law is the cornerstone of democratic governance and that the justice system needs to be more predictable in order to ensure that the people and the business community trust the judiciary.
in writing. − patient safety produces improved quality of life. access to safe healthcare should therefore be guaranteed at all times. investing in patient safety, improving it and further coordination in this field will benefit everyone in the long term.
in writing. − today the european parliament voted on the important report 'patient safety' which gives me the opportunity to support the importance of access to safe healthcare as a basic right of european citizens. around 30-40% of adverse events occurring during medical treatment, both in the hospital sector and in community care, are preventable. among these are those known as hais which are directly responsible for 37 000 deaths a year. it is estimated that about 5% of patients end up with hais in hospitals each year. access to safe medical care is the backbone of a health system and should therefore be recognised as a fundamental right of eu citizens. as i have always argued, patient safety, prevention and care need to be at the top of the european union's political agenda at national, regional and local levels. it is time to have a guarantee for european patients. any patient who goes to a hospital in his own country for treatment shall be granted a definitive period of reasonable waiting time. where the state fails to keep its word, the government of that member state shall be obliged to ensure that the patient is sent for treatment in a private hospital or, if necessary, also in a hospital abroad. in such circumstances, european patients who undergo surgery abroad should have their costs reimbursed by their member state after returning to their home country.
in writing. − i agree that further efforts need to be made both in favour of patients’ empowerment and with regard to the overall training of health professionals and carers. furthermore, i agree with the need to draw up european guidelines on patient safety standards. i have voted in favour.
in writing. − for a fair and proper functioning of the euʼs internal market, it is important that businesses and consumers are protected from misleading marketing practices.
in writing. − i agree with the need to provide traders with protection against misleading advertising. i have voted in favour.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would first like to thank you all for a very substantial and serious debate today. the commission shares your concerns about making concrete progress in the european council this week on such key issues as immigration policy, banking union, the digital economy, financing of the real economy and fighting youth unemployment, as well as on the eastern partnership, which is very important for peace, stability and progress in europe. let me make a few comments on this, starting with the issue of migration and immigration. first, the commission fully agrees with the need to enhance legal economic immigration and labour mobility instead of illegal immigration. my colleague, cecilia malmström, continues to work hard – and decisively – to strengthen europe’s ability to act in this important field. in fact, responding to guy verhofstadt on migration policy, a lot of things have been done since the tampere summit in the late 1990s and in recent years. the creation of frontex and the european asylum support office, the creation of funds for refugees and the completion of a common asylum policy are just some of the main steps taken recently. but – and of course there is a very big but – as president barroso said, the tragedies of lampedusa show us that it is indeed necessary to step up our efforts. messages from the commission on this are clear, and we trust that the european council will listen to them and support us in reinforcing european actions to help prevent and stop tragedies such as this one. we need stronger measures to organise search-and-rescue operations to save lives in danger. this calls for more intensive cooperation between the responsible bodies, and here the commission is taking the lead in a taskforce with member states and eu agencies such as frontex and the european asylum support office, as well as europol. another priority of the european council is the digital economy. this has a clear and immediate link to migration. let us face it: we have a skills shortage in europe, especially with regard to digital skills. therefore, legal economic immigration is one of the solutions – not the only one, but one of the solutions – to this skills shortage. we have to be more forthcoming in this critical field. the commission has also put forward a proposal for a telecoms single market, on which my colleague neelie kroes is working very hard and effectively. we know that this will not be built overnight, but it is an essential step forward, both for bringing benefits for european consumers and for improving our economic competitiveness, thus helping to create employment in the european economy. better regulation is also one of the key areas of the european council and, as underlined by president barroso, we are committed to simplifying legislation to ensure that we have the right regulatory framework to promote economic growth, competitiveness and employment. we have a single market that requires common rules, but the rules need to be smarter and effectively implemented in the same way in all 28 member states. to mr callanan – who is no longer here – i would say that i believe that we are committed both to better regulation and to the single market. so, by the way, was his heroine, margaret thatcher, who supported both the single market and the single european act of 1987, which opened the gates for qualified majority voting, because she realised that, in order to have a strong single market, you also need strong rules and institutions. they go very much hand in hand. i also agree with many speakers that in the coming months our strong priority will be the completion of the banking union, which should still happen during the lithuanian presidency in terms of the single resolution mechanism. at the european council, the commission will underline the importance of maintaining momentum in rebuilding the economic and monetary union and, as a next step, completing the banking union. why is this important? it is important in order to restore and reinforce confidence in the european banking system and to open the credit flows that the smes in europe so badly need. both businesses and households very badly need this, especially in southern europe. this is crucial and is essential in order to create jobs in europe. the commission will also call on the member states to support the important european-level initiatives to address the consequences of the crisis. improving access to finance, particularly for smes, remains a priority, as does the fight against youth unemployment. i have also taken note of your comments on the social dimension of emu. the commission has put the social dimension at the heart of the europe 2020 strategy by including employment and social inclusion targets in it. tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis is a key priority of the annual growth survey. we have proposed concrete ways to develop the social dimension of emu through reinforced surveillance of employment and social developments in the european semester, enhanced solidarity via the eu budget and support for labour mobility, and a strengthened social dialogue, which we see as an equal part of the european social market economy. economic recovery is now under way in europe. it is still fragile but will be on a stronger footing next year when it will also be positively reflected in employment – on condition that we stay on the course of reform, because there is no room for complacency and the economic turnaround now under way should in no way be taken as a signal to scale back the level of ambition. this is what we – both parliament and the commission, as i believe – expect from the european council. we expect concrete steps and concrete progress to support economic recovery and job creation. that is essential, and that is what the citizens of europe call for from the european council.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, vice-president of the commission, honourable members, thank you for this valuable discussion in advance of tomorrow’s european council meeting. a wide range of issues have been covered during the course of the debate. i will ensure that the president of the european council is aware of the specific points which have been raised here in this morning’s debate. as i made clear in my opening remarks, this week’s european council is set to address a number of different issues, but they are interlinked and coherent. the issue of deepening economic and monetary union is about ensuring that we continue to emerge from the economic and financial crisis and create a stronger framework within the eurozone and, in particular, for preventing future crises. it is about developing mechanisms to allow us to cope with future stresses on our economic and financial systems. the key issue of youth unemployment is primarily about addressing one of the most serious consequences of the crisis. tomorrow, heads of state will be taking stock of progress with the initiative on which we agreed at the european council in june. i took note of what has been said by ms berès, ms morin-chartier and ms mcguinness in this regard. the final issue and the main focus of this week’s discussion is an issue which is vital to our future competitiveness in the world: digital economy, innovation and services. this is about ensuring that europe is able to emerge stronger from the crisis, with increased potential for economic growth and the creation of new jobs. there will be a particular focus on the digital economy. we have to promote a digital single market which benefits both consumers and businesses. we must improve it skills and create an environment which encourages investment in the technology of the future. we have to make full use of the potential of the internal market for services. mr rouček raised a very good and pertinent question regarding the eastern partnership summit. i am grateful for his suggestions and proposals. i will certainly transmit these messages to the eu institutions and partners concerned. mr swoboda and mr verhofstadt touched upon a very tragic issue, namely the tragic events in lampedusa and migration policy. the tragedy of the coast of lampedusa has uncovered major issues in the eu migratory framework and border protection policies. as a result, the last justice and home affairs council called for a commission-led joint task force to identify the main gaps and conduct a needs assessment to improve the current system and to avoid tragedies like lampedusa in the future. let me simply say that the lithuanian presidency is working hard to contribute to a comprehensive solution. speaking more concretely, let me simply reiterate that, following a call from the european council for clear rules of engagement for joint patrolling and for rules of disembarkation for rescued persons, the council adopted a decision on 26 april 2010 supplementing the schengen borders code as regards the surveillance of the external maritime borders in the context of operational cooperation coordinated by frontex. this decision includes guidance on the implementation of international law obligations relating to search and rescue, in accordance with the search and rescue convention. then, in october 2012, the european court of justice annulled the above decision but decided to maintain its enforcement until a new legal instrument is adopted. on 16 april 2013, the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation to replace the annulled council decision. under the lithuanian presidency, the first reading has now been completed, and the competent council working party and the strategic committee on immigration frontiers and asylum have discussed certain issues this week. the presidency welcomes the draft report by mr lópez aguilar and wishes to reiterate its commitment to making as much progress as possible before the end of the year, so as to allow a first-reading agreement for the european parliament before the elections next year. finally, let me get back to the issue of mff. there are a couple of remarks that i want to get across. firstly, the lithuanian presidency has been doing, on the council side, whatever is in our power in order to clinch a deal. i am glad that we managed to facilitate an agreement on draft amending budget no 6 on the council side. i would expect the european parliament to do the same here. secondly, it is simply a fact that we in the council managed, in a record-breaking time of two weeks, to get a qualified majority on draft amending budget no 8 and draft amending budget no 9. you could have voted on the whole mff during this plenary. if we in the council could do it another way, when it comes to procedures, of course we would have done it already.
in writing. it is crucial that the problem of illegal immigration in the mediterranean is given absolute priority at the european council summit. two weeks ago we spoke about the tragedy of lampedusa. since then we have had another tragedy in maltese waters in which dozens of syrians have died. these tragedies place greater burdens on the eu. today everyone expects to at least show solidarity with these people who are being forced to leave everything behind to get away from the current circumstances in their country. these people are being forced to trust their lives to criminals who will stop at nothing to risk their lives to get their money. we are talking about organised crime which requires an organised battle that can only succeed with the concrete support of all member countries. we need to see what we can do to ensure that these people do not have to put their lives in the hands of criminals to get away from the dangers that surround them. a clear question arises: is organised crime more capable than the eu? i would like to refer to what aung san suu kyi said when she received the sakharov prize at this plenary. he stressed the importance of freedom of thought. he stressed the importance of the right to ask "why? the but towards the end of her speech she said that the question she didn't want to hear was: why were you born? let us take our responsibility and not let these people ask this question. the council should take concrete action on issa.
in writing. − a monitoring mechanism has been put in place to respond to new diversion trends by adding substances to a list in order to temporarily monitor them. the introduction of a rapid response mechanism to ensure that competent authorities can seize consignments of non-scheduled substances is another important step for the eu to take. i have supported this report in an effort to fight drug production and trade and to ensure the monitoring of trade between the community and third countries in drug precursors.
in writing. − i agree with this report and have voted in favour of amending the regulation on drug precursors to enable the european union and its member states to continue to have all the tools necessary to continue to combat drug cartels and, ultimately, save lives.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report as i recognise the importance and usefulness of pooling, mapping, and disseminating fisheries data, which is essential for the fisheries sector to continue to grow.
in writing. − the eu has not yet had a specific legislative framework for enforcing its rights in the field of trade policy and has instead been following a case-by-case approach. this initiative intends to provide the eu with a single legislative instrument enabling it to defend its interests in a rapid, effective and flexible way, in order to encourage offending countries to put an end to illegal behaviour. the eu must lay down rules governing how the european union would enforce and defend its rights in the event of unfair or illegal trade actions taken in a third country. i have therefore voted in favour of this dossier.
in writing. − there is a strong link between climate change and development because the most vulnerable groups of people are the most affected by this change. therefore, climate change and poverty should be placed high on the agenda. we should keep in mind the most vulnerable and poor and those who are being badly affected now and will be badly affected in the future. it would be good to start addressing the challenge that climate change brings to climate refugees. unfortunately, climate change continues to weigh on those already suffering from poor living conditions. all this requires strong political will.
in writing. − it is estimated that human trafficking generates a profit of eur 25 billion a year and that the number of forced labourers in the eu is 888 000. the report sets out a road map that goes a long way to: (1) defining criminal acts, including involvement in mafia-style organisations and self-laundering; (2) abolishing bank secrecy; (3) eliminating tax havens; (4) promoting the seizure and confiscation of criminal assets; (5) criminalising sports-rigging; (6) introducing appropriate penalties for cybercrime; (7) eradicating trafficking in human beings and forced labour. we must step up the fight against organised crime and i would like to signal my appreciation for all the work done by the rapporteur, salvatore iacolino, on this comprehensive report. as a member of the crim special committee i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. − the commission’s proposal to reduce the ceiling of guarantee for the sub-region of the southern mediterranean neighbourhood from eur 8.7 billion to eur 8.4 billion should be condemned. a reduction of some eur 300 million cannot be justified, given the current turmoil in the mediterranean region. any reduction in the southern neighbourhood envelope is not acceptable and the least that could be done is that the amount be reinstated to at least eur 8.7 billion, as it was back in 2009. actions speak louder than words.
in writing. − we welcome this joint resolution, which we hope will serve as a spur and catalyst for the european union to take further action in this area. finally, the efforts and sacrifices made by maltese and italians in relation to immigration are being recognised by all the different political groups. a few weeks ago i made a number of different proposals that the european union should consider to ensure that the tragedies we have seen will never happen again. i am pleased to note that this resolution before us, which is agreed by all parties, takes account of the ideas i have spoken about in order to look at immigration holistically and not fragmented. we are now seeing that the responsibility does not fall solely on the country where migrants enter after being rescued.
in writing. − i welcome this report which calls for the limitation of landfilling of non-recyclable and non-recoverable waste by 2020 and introduces a binding framework beyond 2020 to enable member states and industry to make necessary investments in emissions reduction, energy efficiency and renewable energy. in particular i welcome the emphasis on the need to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of inspections. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which concerns the recasting of the council's basic standards directive and is a further step towards a better system of protection against exposure to ionising radiation. the european parliament's vote in favour of the report is a further indication of its concern for the health of citizens and for prevention in cases of exposure to dangerous radiation, such as ionising radiation.
in writing. − this report manages to incorporate the latest available scientific data and experience gained with radiation protection into current legislation. it is a welcome report that i have voted in favour of.
in writing. - the mediterranean is currently experiencing major upheavals. it is a turnaround that until a few years ago we were hoping that the african countries bordering this sea would begin to move towards a democratic system similar to that which we europeans enjoy. progress has been made, but too little. unfortunately, we are still far from what we had hoped for. the citizens of libya, tunisia and egypt are still far from enjoying the democracy that many of them thought would come with the removal of their long-standing tyrants. i would like to refer here to the union for the mediterranean, an association which i think has reduced itself to a mere paper union. i think it would be wise to see what can be done to ensure that this unity is taken on board and, at such important times, makes its contribution to a democratic future for the mediterranean region, a future of peace, in which the citizens of each country can live a decent life.
in writing. − i welcome this own-initiative report that evaluates the eu common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and gives a number of recommendations for improving it, notably by making it more comprehensive, coherent, effective and visible. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − this report paves the way for a broad revision of the current regulatory framework, which includes the issues of european radio spectrum coordination, net neutrality, competition between traditional communication providers and newcomers, universal service and roaming among others. we need to do more to ensure that there are the right conditions in place so as to allow artificially high roaming prices to be brought down. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
let me start by thanking sa pack for all its work on this dossier. i had the honour of being one of the first students to be able to attend for a semester abroad, thanks to the erasmus programme. so i know firsthand how important this program is. the mobility of students and academics has become an integral part of what it means to be not only a european student, but also an active citizen of europe. over the last decade, in malta, we have invested in students and emphasised the importance of the country investing in education so that today's students receive their training and become tomorrow's leaders. this flagship european union student mobility programme does just that. and that is why it is a great honour for me, as a member of this parliament, to be able to vote today to strengthen this programme, which has given me so many opportunities, and to be able to extend it to more than 4 000 000 young men and women across europe to help them study, train, work and volunteer abroad. so, thank you commissioner, thank you pack: this is a programme we can be very proud of.
i would like to appeal to the excessive bureaucracy that exists in this institution, especially when it comes to the granting of funds for projects, not to be a means of stifling the initiative by citizens or associations who need it. while transparency and fairness in the distribution of funds are very important, citizens are under the impression that the bureaucracy in the european union is such that it discourages anyone with valuable ideas and projects. i know that in countries there are organisations and companies that specialise in finding european funds for clients, but there are many cases where smes and ngos are finding that the financial assistance they need from european funds is buried under a patchwork of forms and papers to satisfy bureaucracy. this only serves to undermine the initiative and challenges the purpose of european funds to help those with valuable and interesting projects. i therefore call for this problem to be tackled as far as possible in a way that serves the citizens without taking the initiative and without sacrificing fair control and transparency.
in writing. – based on s&d priorities, the agreement on the general budget of the eu for the next seven years contains lots of funds for programmes and policies tackling youth unemployment and poverty. these are some of the positive elements that would not have been in place if parliament had not taken part in the negotiations. however, for the first time in its history the euʼs multiannual budget is regretfully being decreased, at a time when we need investment in social cohesion. europeʼs regions are in desperate need of investments that enable them to grow, and that show that we are not leaving alone people who live in poverty, our unemployed youth, and all the other citizens who expect the eu to work for them. cutting the eu budget by around 3.5 % is clearly the wrong signal and multiplies the negative effects of national budget cuts from which so many people are already suffering. for that reason, we will have to keep fighting in the coming years, and we will have to send a clear message to our citizens that we need to invest in citizenship, inclusion and growth. it is the only way to achieve a social europe.
in writing. − in light of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework, i agree that the european parliament should approve the conclusion of this interinstitutional agreement for implementing budgetary discipline and for improving the functioning of the annual budgetary procedure and cooperation between the institutions on budgetary matters.
in writing. − i agree that, given the recent worrying rates of unemployment in the valencian autonomous community of 20.19% in 2013, the european commission should mobilise an amount of eur 840 000 to stimulate the local economy.
in writing. − this international agreement on access for companies to government procurement markets is very important for the eu, since we have many companies that are very active in public procurement markets in third countries. this agreement provides legal certainty and includes important rules on transparency.
in writing. − i support the revised government procurement agreement (gpa) because it increases transparency and extends its coverage.
the european parliament's plenary today approved this important report on the launch of the multiannual erasmus for all programme the european union programme for education, culture, youth and sport. i would like to express my satisfaction with this programme, which will mean a vote of over eur 14 billion so that five million students and young people in europe can study in another country. i believe that the new financial instrument, the loan guarantee facility, will help many students to obtain better conditions to finance their studies. even if i would have preferred this instrument not to be capped at the sum of eur 195. 1 million in recent months i have been actively pushing for this agreement to be reached. i have made several appeals to the european institutions to take the necessary action to find a solution on the financing of the erasmus programme. they did so with the full support of the socialist and democratic group. the erasmus+ programme brings together formal and informal education, gardening, as well as youth and sport programmes. these include separate budgets for the erasmus, erasmus mundus, leonardo da vinci, comenius, grundtvig and youth in action programmes. europe needs a lot of help to meet the needs of generations of young people facing economic problems, in particular unemployment. i believe that this programme will also help to make learners more employable in the future and this will also help cooperation between member states in the field of education and training. that is why in recent months i have worked a lot among students and took the initiative with maltese university students through correspondence and documents that i sent to the student representative associations on the campus of the university of malta to explain the situation of a financial discrepancy in the budget of the european union that was threatening the future of erasmus and was also jeopardising the participation of many students in exchanges with other universities. i believe in this programme because it promotes social inclusion and access for all while strengthening the training space for young people with special needs and fewer opportunities than others. finally, erasmus is one of the most successful programmes in the european union. over three million european students have already participated in these exchanges offering learning and training experiences in different countries. this experience strengthens the professional potential of students, as well as contributing to the sustainable development of our citizens in the context of a common future for all europeans.
when we talk about the erasmus for all programme, we are talking about education, training, youth and even sport. we are talking about the future of europe. without education and training we cannot look to a better future. education and training are one and the same. young people without education and training have no future and it is therefore our duty to make this tool available to all young europeans. but not only mr president! we need to move beyond that because the future of europe is more or less conditioned by what happens in other countries as well. in the world there are some 620 million young people who have never received any education or training and therefore have little hope of finding employment and are likely to remain socially excluded throughout their lives. and while we are giving these opportunities to europe's young people, we cannot forget and ignore the millions of young people who do not have these opportunities. as we cannot forget the young people affected by addictions, the erasmus programme will certainly do its part to help them through the sport included in the programme.
the future of our children must always be the highest priority for us politicians. we need to ensure that our young people are given the best opportunities so that they can develop, succeed and find their career. we must work to ensure that our students can enjoy the possibility of educational exchanges, especially those coming from small states and islands like malta. the erasmus programme is, without a doubt, among the most successful programmes for the european union. anyone who has had any kind of similar experience points out the importance it has left on him, not only at an academic level, but above all at a personal level. we must therefore ensure that this programme continues to be strengthened so that the students of today and tomorrow can benefit from the same opportunities. i believe that the report on the 'erasmus for all programme' is a good report that addresses both the positive aspects of the programme, as well as those shortcomings that exist. in view of this, i voted wholeheartedly in favour of this report.
in writing. − the creative europe programme will support projects in the culture, creativity and audio-visual sectors. all these elements give added value for europe. embracing the recognition of the dual nature of culture and promoting both tangible and less-tangible cultural heritage, it also supports training in professional skills and access to culture for young people, persons with a disability and other under-represented groups.
in writing. − i support the encouragement of a ‘creative europe’ through this programme, which will include two independent sub-programmes (media and culture). this will also introduce a new financial facility that will help improve access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and organisations in the cultural and creative sectors. i have therefore voted in favour.
the aim of this programme is to bring europe closer to citizens and to help them to participate fully in the building of europe. through this programme, citizens have the opportunity to become more involved in transnational exchanges and even cooperation in activities that contribute to feeling more part of common european ideas. i cannot fail to mention the good that twins do in our towns and villages. i can speak of this wealth because of the direct experience i gained in my work as a member of the local councils. but there is always more to be done. of course, more funds will always be needed - but it is more important to see that the funds are spent where they should be to really achieve our objectives, and not be lost in red tape. we also need to see that funds are spent in a balanced way to be really close to the greatest possible number of citizens.
in writing. − following the introduction of maltaʼs controversial citizenship scheme, the concept of what it means to be a european citizen is a topic that is being debated in malta. this is a debate that must continue and has already raised a number of important issues. we need to do more to encourage reflection and debates on common european values, and support initiatives to raise awareness of the eu institutions. i am also in favour of enhancing capacity for civic participation at the union level through initiatives such as citizensʼ meetings and debates on citizenship issues. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the funds that are used for the connecting europe facility are aimed at investment in projects for europe’s infrastructure, in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications. it helps to ensure a more cohesive eu and also promotes sustainable jobs and growth.
in writing. − the connecting europe facility (cef) will be the new common financing instrument for three eu infrastructure networks: transport, energy and telecommunications. i agree that the cef is a crucial and strategic instrument in the next multiannual financial framework for investing in growth and jobs and for overcoming the current economic crisis and i have voted in favour.
in writing. − the trans-european transport network is there to connect europe through several networks in the areas of transport, telecommunications and energy. this will improve infrastructure throughout the eu, by concentrating on fixing cross-border missing links and bottlenecks.
in writing. − i am in favour of this agreement because it allows for a core transport network to be established by 2030, which will become the backbone of transportation in the single market. i welcome in particular the guidelines with specific network maps that will integrate isolated projects into a real transportation network.
in writing. − i agree with this report and welcome the streamlining of the european statistical system as well as the replacement of the regulatory procedure with scrutiny (rps) with delegated acts.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report and welcome the establishment of a framework for multilateral cooperation to prevent and control the pollution of transboundary watercourses. i also welcome the underlying assertion on the rational use of water by countries of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece).
in writing. − i support the continuation of the euratom programme and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i support the creation of a multiannual nuclear decommissioning assistance programme from 2014-2020 in lithuania, slovakia and bulgaria.
the european social fund is considered one of the main instruments the european union has for its work to promote employment and social inclusion, with a special focus on the most vulnerable in society. at a time when 27 million people in europe are unemployed and 146 million at risk of poverty, an agreement on this fund sends a strong signal of the european union's determination to meet the social and employment challenges within the europe 2020 strategy. it is important that 20% of the european social fund budget will be allocated to the fight against poverty and social exclusion. it is also important to make specific reference to the realisation of a youth guarantee through the youth employment initiative. 'today's young generation is the future of tomorrow's europe.' the european social fund will be helping countries like malta. due to the low participation of older people and a small number of women in work, malta has one of the lowest rates of people in work in the european union, namely 63. 1%, according to 2012 statistics. the european social fund will be supporting and helping young people and the most vulnerable groups in society to integrate into the labour market.
in writing. − this report provides a crucial new framework for the financing and governance of the two european flagship satellite navigation programmes galileo and egnos for the period 2014-2020. it is essential that these continue to go from strength to strength, and i have therefore supported the report.
in writing. − given the impact that the arab spring had on jordan’s economy, the unrest in neighbouring countries such as syria and egypt, and also the negative ramifications of the economic crisis, it is good that we show solidarity with this country, within the framework of the eu’s neighbourhood policy.
in writing. − i agree with this report because the operation with jordan will be the first macro-financial assistance programme in the southern neighbourhood representing a clear signal of the eu’s support to countries in the region.
in writing. − increased cooperation between the eu and third countries such as russia in the fight against drug trafficking is crucial. i supported this report because it allows for an eu-russia agreement on the prevention of precursors and chemical substances frequently used in the illicit manufacture of narcotic drugs, which will strengthen the eu’s ability to fight drug traffickers.
in writing. − this report on the cohesion funds is very important in terms of approving the funds that european regions can benefit from during the next budgetary period. however, this report finds me somewhat in difficulty as regards macroeconomic conditionality. i believe that no region should be reprimanded and disciplined by cutting funds as those who will ultimately suffer are the people we are representing. citizens should not suffer because of the inefficiencies or incompetence of their governments. i also understand that this was something agreed at the level of the european council, and that if this report were not passed now, there would have been a delay in the allocation of these cohesion funds. in view of all this, i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european social fund (esf), the eu’s principal instrument for employment promotion and social inclusion, has undergone tremendous changes: it will now include a minimum of 20% of its budget for the fight against poverty and social inclusion, and make a substantial effort to tackle youth unemployment by its youth employment initiative. moreover, for the first time, one of the fund’s explicit priorities is to contribute to combating discrimination based on sex or sexual orientation. the projects that are funded by the esf should support the most vulnerable people in our society.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report that includes important provisions defining investment priorities and lays down specific provisions concerning operational programmes. i also support the inclusion of the proposal for the youth employment initiative (yei).
by voting in favour of the report on the european regional fund and investing in growth and job creation, the european parliament and the european union have shown that they want to strengthen economic and social cohesion across europe by correcting imbalances between regions, including through the inclusion of tourism funds in the european regional development fund. i am pleased to see this recognition of the contribution that tourism makes to the european economy and of the needs of this sector. the tourism sector offers great potential for development, enhances economic growth, has a solid economic fabric, incorporates small and medium-sized industries and provides a large number of jobs. the support from the european regional development fund to be granted to this industry and related sectors is therefore justified. tourism also has a strong effect on the cohesion, dynamism and attractiveness of regions, territorial development and the environment. the european regional development fund's support for measures to assist professionals and customers, with the aim of guaranteeing the availability and delivery of sustainable, responsible and high-quality tourism infrastructure projects, as well as practices that protect the environment, our natural heritage and biodiversity, helps to achieve the objectives of cohesion policy. i therefore welcome the elements of the european regional development fund that make it more effective in creating jobs, encouraging innovation while meeting environmental objectives and securing funding for sustainable tourism and culture.
in writing. − i agree with this report because it proposes the new european regional development fund regulation as an integral part of the cohesion policy legal framework for the multiannual programming period 2014-2020.
in writing. − i am in favour of allowing the option of appointing a certification authority to monitor and ensure the accuracy of payment applications which this report allows, and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − with the new agreement on the cohesion fund for 2014-2020, meant to help countries and regions that are lagging behind regarding gni, many investments in the environment and the trans-european transport network will be supported. energy efficiency will be promoted, helping the eu to reach its 2020 targets, and it will also help citizens through important elements such as cheaper energy bills, and the creation of more green jobs.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report because it broadens the scope of the cohesion fund in order to include support for energy efficiency and renewable energy use in the housing sector, as well as underlining the necessary support for high efficiency district heating and cogeneration of heat and power.
this is a historic moment for all of us. but to get there, we must cut off from the past. mr president, we must look to the long term, we must seriously analyse what is happening. it is an honour for me to have been part of a great force today that voted for more women to sit on company boards. however, it would be a mistake to be satisfied with a tool such as quota surpluses. statistics show that we still have more women graduates than men, but, in reality, we have fewer women in leadership positions. and the reason, mr president? there are no structures and tools strong enough to really achieve equality. why, mr president? how can that girl living in that alley, in that remote country, in the periphery, have equal opportunities with others if she does not have a book and a pen in her hands? how can a victim of domestic violence move forward? hence my appeal, mr president. we need to look at things holistically. and i take this opportunity, mr president, to say that it is appropriate for this parliament to greet in solidarity the women who are deprived of their means because of violence when, five days from now, we commemorate the international day against violence against women. . of . of solidarity, mr president, is the key to our success.
in writing. − this report is recommending specific targets for 40% of positions to be filled by women by the year 2020. i believe that this step will be fundamental to achieving greater equality in society in general. i remain opposed to the concept of quotas. but this report is giving enough time to achieve the gender gap in boardrooms in a more dignified way. i believe strongly in the capacity of women and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i agree with the aim of this report to ensure that retail investors are able to understand the key features and risks of retail investment products and to compare the features of different products. i would also put on record my opposition to an amendment, which was rejected, to add an article 13d(4) to the report that would have put in place a cap of eur 200 that a financial adviser or intermediary can charge for providing advice. this measure was disproportionate and unacceptable in a free economy.
in writing. − despite the historical development of the eu and the symbolic value, i do not believe that we can any longer accept the fact that parliament is located in three different seats. aside from practical and environmental reasons, it is not trustworthy for an eu institution to spend a significant share of its budget on logistical procedures, especially in times of budgetary constraints. at the very least, parliament should be able to decide for itself on its location. this has been advocated by parliament for many years now, and it is time for the council to move.
in writing. − the european institute of innovation is something that we can all be proud of and it is going from strength to strength. i agree with this report because it will serve to continue to enhance the european institute of innovation’s impact.
in writing. − having a single budget line for the european institute of innovation is something necessary and positive. i will therefore support this report.
i voted in favour of the cosme report, especially as this is the first time that the european union is creating a programme specifically targeted at smes. this is an important step as it will help to strengthen the place of small and medium-sized companies in the european market which are already strongly contributing to the european union's gross domestic product and representing 58% of the european union's turnover. this programme will strengthen the competitiveness and sustainability of enterprises across the european union. i welcome the fact that specific groups of our societies and members of disadvantaged and vulnerable groups will be given more attention. it was also important that tourism be given an important role in the proposal as it was made. it is very important to highlight the added value for europe of the tourism sector. it is important to take measures to facilitate access to funds as well as the implementation of support in infrastructure and in technical and financial tools that allow the development and growth of enterprises in this field. it is necessary to help these enterprises in the tourism sector to develop further so that they can participate fully in the european common market. to do this, we need to make more use of the 'think small first' policy, a principle which i insist should be made more use of at european level in order to exchange 'best practice' in the member states. the agreed budget of 2,350 billion euro will not be enough but, with the implementation of cosme, some 40,000 small and medium-sized enterprises will be supported. this will result in the creation of some 30 000 new jobs and the creation of 1 000 new jobs. 1 billion more in the gross domestic product of the european union.
in writing. − the vast majority of malta’s and europe’s businesses are smes. this report will continue to support all small and medium-sized enterprises and will concentrate on growth. we need to do more to support our businesses. this is a positive development and one i will support.
in writing. − i share the objectives of the report, which calls for the strengthening and enhancement of capacity for civic participation at union level.
in writing. − this programme, soon to be renamed the european programme for employment and social innovation, finances innovative projects in the field of employment, social inclusion and equal opportunities. it will help to connect job seekers and employers in the eu through eures, and encourage people who are unemployed or at risk of losing their jobs to set up their own companies. this is very important in times of crisis.
in writing. − i support this report because it provides for a common framework of governance for the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the programme for employment and social innovation.
in writing. − i am in favour of this report because it includes a new type of project, the main purpose of which is to foster the implementation of environment and climate policies and the integration of their specific objectives into other policies.
in writing. − this report does not alter the substance of solvency ii and does not impose any additional obligations on businesses. i can therefore support extending the obligation of member states to transpose the directive from 30 june 2013 to 31 december 2014.
in writing. − the faster flow of goods across borders is of benefit for all, including developing countries. an agreement on ‘trade facilitation’ would reduce red tape, enhance legal certainty, reduce the amount of time goods are kept in transit and the length of customs procedures. this text calls on the commission and the council to ensure the ep is promptly updated and, if needed, consulted during the bali wto ministerial conference and also calls the commission to ‘make the case to the other wto members for increasing the importance of the parliamentary dimension of the wto’. the democratic legitimacy of wto should be enhanced by strengthening the parliamentary dimension and ensuring better access for parliamentarians to trade talks and wto decision-making.
in writing. − having a common approach to standardisation and certification is important for the establishment of a european competitive single defence market; we must strengthen the european defence industrial and technological base. i have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − there is an urgent need to develop a social pillar to a european policy that has so far been dominated by economic indicators and austerity measures. we cannot move towards a social europe unless we take into account that many people are already losing their jobs or living on the verge of poverty. europe is more than economics only.
it was not possible for this parliament to fail to join the people of africa, as well as the rest of the world, in paying a fitting tribute to nelson mandela. i would like to recall what nelson mandela said in his own jury on 20 april 1964. he said: the ideal of a democratic and free society in which everyone can live in harmony and with equal opportunities. this is an ideal that i hope to see realized in my lifetime, but which, if necessary, is an ideal for which i am willing to die. it is words that equip us with courage to face the social challenges that lie ahead. even in europe we still have millions of citizens who still hope that mandela's ideal will become a reality for them too. among them are the 25 million children who are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. thanks to mandela, south africa has a constitution that is among the most progressive in the world. in a moment of sorrow, therefore, i call on this parliament to commit ourselves to making mandela's wish come true and to equal opportunities.
in writing. − the rights, equality and citizenship programme helps lgbt people by tackling discrimination as one of its main objectives. it is important that the programme also includes the fight against homophobia. both goals were long-awaited and we hope they will now become a reality.
in writing. - the treaties of the european union provide for the possibility of recognising the specific structural social and economic situation of the outermost regions. the canary islands have been granted this status and it is therefore necessary to identify specific measures to adapt the conditions for the development of these areas. in this sense, the opening of tariff quotas exempt from duties, such as those covered by this proposal, should be seen as reinforcing other measures aimed at the same objective and, in particular, measures relating to the system of compensation for the additional costs linked to the marketing of fishery products in the outermost regions.
in writing. − we need to provide economic operators with a sustainable future whilst reaching a level of activity that stabilises the economic and social environment on the canary islands. this dossier will go some way to achieving that goal and i supported it in plenary.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund helps workers who have been made redundant, due to structural changes in their place of employment or because of world trade patterns, to find new jobs and re-skill. it is clear that the situation in this case fully satisfies the criteria for the fund to be used. i therefore support the report and have voted in favour.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund helps workers who have been made redundant, due to structural changes in their place of employment or because of world trade patterns, to find new jobs and re-skill. it is clear that the situation in this case fully satisfies the criteria for the fund to be used. i therefore support the report and have voted in favour.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund helps workers who have been mde redundant, due to structural changes in their place of employment or because of world trade patterns, to find new jobs and re-skill. it is clear that the situation in this case fully satisfies the criteria for the fund to be used. i therefore support the report and have voted in favour.
in writing. − now that the european parliament has approved a recommendation to reach an agreement with canada as soon as possible, we hope that this agreement will become a reality in the short term. it is also important that any agreement is reached with the participation of all stakeholders involved and civil society which should be consulted and kept informed throughout the process.
in writing. − i support the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) as well as the broader strategic partnership agreement (spa) as a means to enhance political and cultural relations with canada.
in writing. - the economic crisis which also hit the financial system hard has also shown that the financial sector has also been hit in its financial appendages and in non-bank credit institutions. this is precisely why there is a need to implement a crisis management and resolution framework for financial institutions other than banks. to that end, the establishment of a ccp (central counterparty) plays an important role in risk management. it is therefore important for the protection of client assets that ccps are equipped with the necessary tools to address potential threats to their business continuity.
in writing. − i support the committee on economic affairs’ report that critical market infrastructure operators need to demonstrate proper governance and strong risk management for the sector to remain strong and for the benefit of all our citizens.
in writing. the swinburne report on the recovery and resolution framework is a very good report. the report deals with the framework that is to be used in the revcovery and resolution of ccps and cdps which are at a credit risk. i believe that such a framework is needed in order to ensure that small investors investing their money in such things are not put at risk. in light of this, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − it is crucial that europe’s space industry remains competitive on a global level – and i have therefore supported this report.
in writing. − i agree that cloud computing has enormous potential economic and efficiency benefits and is becoming crucial for the competitiveness of european industry and smes. the sector is growing day by day and it is becoming a strong instrument for growth and jobs in europe. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − berec, the body of european regulators of electronic communications, was set up to help define technical and policy guidelines for the completion of the internal market with two objectives: ensure the highest degree of independence of regulators and make their application of the regulatory framework more consistent at european level. i voted in favour of the report because, although berec is the smallest eu agency, it has shown that it is working properly overall. however, this does not prevent a debate from being launched on the possibility of setting a set of more ambitious and internal market-oriented objectives for berec and its structure.
in writing. − i support this annual update of the eu’s competition policy and have voted in favour.
in writing. − a common eu civil protection policy increases the security of eu citizens and helps to improve the eu’s response to natural and man-made disasters. malta’s use of the civil protection mechanism during the 2011 libya crisis enabled malta and other member states to mobilise resources and repatriate people to their home countries after these fled libya to tunisia. i have seen it work in practice and know how important it was to strengthen and widen the mechanism. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the directive introduces general principles for marketing and advertising communications, obliges creditors to provide personalised information to the consumer and also means that creditors will provide client appropriate explanations on the proposed agreement at the pre-contractual stage. this safeguards the rights and interests of consumers and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the sanchez presedo report on credit agreements related to residential properties is a very positive report. it is a report that will give a breathing space to young european couples to make it possible for them to be homeowners. the crisis that has hit us in recent years has made this dream impossible for many people. this report makes it easy to make your dream of home ownership possible again. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the report is not a solution, but it is only a small step forward or a temporary step in the hope that a long-term solution will soon be found. it is understandable that the solution to emissions is not easy. but the harder it is to find a solution, the more intensive our work must all be. this is expected of every european citizen because this is a field that affects everyone.
mr president, the car industry has for many years provided jobs for millions of workers in europe and it is therefore of serious concern that this industry has perhaps also taken a downward turn in recent years. it is sufficient to say that car sales decreased from 17 million in december 2006 to 12 million in december 2012. but when we look at this area we must not only look at it from the point of view of the economy and employment. and when i say jobs, i want to emphasise that i am referring to decent jobs. but we have to look at this area through an environmental lens as well. and even then from a health standpoint. this is because the latest statistics we have show that 12% of carbon dioxide emissions come from cars on the road. therefore, while it is a step in the right direction to take steps to prevent this industry from going backwards it is also important to encourage the production of vehicles that do the least possible damage to the environment. we need to work to make the prices of environmentally friendly vehicles accessible to more people and i believe that this can only be done if we give proper priority to research and innovation.
in writing. − first of all i want to stress that all eu member states must act forcefully to address health-related issues, such as access to safe and affordable healthcare, including sexual and reproductive health, maternal mortality and morbidity, and the spread of hiv/aids. however, i am of the view that discussions on rights and services in connection with reproductive health cannot take place outside the framework of one of the most fundamental of human rights – the right to life. i strongly believe that the right to life extends to the unborn child from the moment of conception, and that therefore the use of abortion as a means of resolving health or social problems is a denial of that same right.
in writing. - this is a report with its heart in the right place. any situation that requires the improvement of the rights of the person, especially of the most vulnerable, deserves our full support. such support and work should never be at the expense of the rights of the employer. we cannot live in a world where to help the vulnerable, we continue to oppress those who are more vulnerable than we are. the right to life is a sacrosanct one. no one and nothing should prevent a person, even if in the womb of the mother, from being born and living his life. this report unfortunately does not acknowledge this point, but specifically goes against it. in view of this i had no choice but to vote against this report
in writing. − volunteering means more than 90 million people doing this valuable work in the eu. in malta, last year there were 30,000 people aged 12 and over doing voluntary work on a regular basis. this is work that should be encouraged not only from a social but also from an economic point of view even if it is difficult to measure this work. voluntary associations are also to be commended and should also be given the funds to enable them to operate. local and regional authorities can be catalysts in aid because they are the closest to volunteers.
in writing. − i am pleased to welcome this report on volunteering and voluntary activity in europe. in the european union there are thousands of volunteers who, every day, try to bring about change for the better without receiving the same attention. in 2011, we celebrated the european year of volunteering, with the main aim of encouraging volunteer engagement while addressing the challenges of volunteering by focusing on specific projects rather than long-term ones. i am pleased to say that as a result, several member states have made efforts to increase volunteering through measures to improve conditions for volunteering and through a more appropriate awareness of its importance. the eu's focus on volunteering is still strong and not over. especially in these times of crisis and austerity we must continue to support this focus on voluntary associations. we must also continue to work towards the creation of a common european strategy on volunteering. we must continue to support schemes such as the european voluntary service (evs). i would like to end by thanking all the volunteers for their contribution to european society. i come from a small country, but one with a rich heritage of volunteering. this sector in malta and gozo is diverse and diverse, with associations and organisations coming from the political, cultural and sporting fields amongst others. to all these volunteers in malta and other member states: thank you.
in writing. − we cannot underestimate the value of voluntary work across the eu – i have met with many maltese and european ngos and understand how important this report is. the report underlines the need to establish a legal framework that recognises volunteering activities in the union and calls for a comparison of data across different member states. i have therefore supported the report.
member states need to take the initiative and in a sense of solidarity contribute to solving the issue of irregular immigration in the mediterranean. the european union should have a mechanism that binds everyone to contribute as appropriate. it is necessary that the european council meeting next week agrees on operational measures leading to mandatory burden-sharing between member states. the measures identified by the task force for the mediterranean should be translated into concrete actions to be implemented efficiently and effectively. timelines for implementing these measures should be provided. the disproportionate responsibility that malta has had to shoulder in this problem clearly identifies the need to renew and replace the common european asylum system, a review of the dublin system and the need for further work to achieve the objectives of the stockholm programme. it should also further increase cooperation with countries outside the european union under the global approach to migration and mobility (gamm). this long-term work...
in writing. the european parliament's meetings in recent months have been dominated by discussions on the problem of irregular immigration affecting malta and italy. this was because a few days before our meeting there had been two tragedies near malta and lampedusa - tragedies that left hundreds of victims, including women and children - on the bottom of the mediterranean sea. all those who took part in the discussions were in one word: the eu had to take a collective responsibility to find a solution to this problem. several calls have been made to the european council to take the problem more seriously and to turn words into action. i cannot say that these appeals fell on deaf ears because thanks to the initiatives of the maltese government and prime minister joseph muscat, important steps were taken when the council agreed that operational decisions had to be taken within a few weeks. it is gratifying that the mediterranean task force has submitted to the european commission a number of proposals for concrete action. the task force document includes several important points that should lead to at least a mitigation of the problem. i would just mention the proposal to give third countries help to allow migrants to cross to europe by legal means and not by life-threatening boats. it seems that we have moved from words to deeds. we have gone from mere speeches to concrete commitments. we hope that we will now move to concrete action with the first step being the implementation of the mediterranean task force document.
the ilo convention before us is primarily about decent work. so it is very important that it also applies to today's times. just this week we had commissioner vivienne reding's comments on the fact that the pay gap between female and male workers has been narrowed. you hear her say that this is good news, but it's really not good news at all because the gap has not been reduced by increases in the wages of female workers, but by decreases in the wages of male workers. we need not just equal pay, but decent pay if we really want a social europe. this is not a good omen for a more decent job. it is rather proof that the austerity measures that have been taken and are still being taken are leading to more burdens on workers. it is good that we ratify but workers expect more concrete steps that will really give them work and therefore a more decent life. many workers are still waiting for concrete steps to bring about a truly social and dignified europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. i voted in favour of the proposal to authorise member states to ratify those parts of the international labour organisation convention no 189 on decent work which fall within the competence of the european union. according to eurostat figures there are 2.6 million domestic workers in the european union of which a high percentage are women. domestic work is one of the most vulnerable jobs. ilo convention 198 introduces the need for protection for domestic workers. these workers often find themselves in vulnerable situations, and victims of discrimination or other human rights abuses. in a number of eu countries, domestic workers are often given precarious or uncontracted work. they are paid late, work overtime, do not get vacation leave or rest days, work on public holidays, and in some cases, even do not get paid at all. we need to stop. the european union cannot continue to turn a blind eye to all this. these people need to be taken care of and we must recognise the value of domestic workers and give them guarantees and rights. unfortunately, a large number of member states of the european union have not ratified this ilo convention 189. even the countries that have ratified it have not yet put it into effect. this is unacceptable, especially in the context of economic crisis and declining solidarity. the european parliament is calling on all member states to ratify the convention. certain countries also need to set minimum conditions such as a minimum age for workers. all countries also need to establish a mechanism providing safeguards for workers under the age of 18. action is needed by each country to bring about appropriate conditions for workers with regard to the prevention of abuse, violence, and child labour.
in writing. − this regulation, covering different elements of external financing instruments for the forthcoming seven years, establishes how the money is to be spent, for instance, on development cooperation, the european neighbourhood, and the instrument contributing to stability and peace. a coordinated regulation is needed to safeguard the euʼs priorities outside of its borders.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood instrument, which establishes the financial aspect of the euʼs cooperation with both eastern and southern neighbours, is a crucial tool in guaranteeing the euʼs priorities. recent years have shown how instability in the southern neighbourhood, for instance, affects the eu. it is essential that we are fully engaged in promoting stability and progress in the euʼs neighbourhood.
in writing. − it is good to spread the help given to workers who lose their jobs. but this is not in itself a positive thing because it means that we are still very far from solving the problem of unemployment in europe. no matter how much help is given, these workers cannot be satisfied, because it is work that gives man dignity.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) helps workers and young people find employment and acquire new skills where they have lost their jobs because their firm has closed or production has been relocated as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns or the financial and economic crisis. it is a necessary programme and i am satisfied with the text as it stands.
in writing. − the instrument for pre-accession assistance, meant to provide financial assistance to eu accession candidates, is an important tool to prepare countries for joining the european union. the renewed instrument (ipa ii) will help these countries speed up necessary reforms and meet eu standards, and it is closely connected to the political priorities of the eu. it is good too that local institutions in these countries will be more empowered to benefit from this assistance. it is in everyoneʼs interest to help these countries move forward.
in writing. − there is a need to replace national reporting and authorisation procedures relating to carriers of radioactive materials by a unique registration system. i agree with this regulation because it also allows for procedures to be simplified while still maintaining a high level of radiation protection.
in writing. − the production of milk and milk products is often the sole source of income for certain residents of mountain regions and outermost regions of the eu. i agree that milk quotas must be abolished and that parliament should demonstrate its tangible support for these local communities that depend on us.
in writing. − recent and food crises in the sahel region and in the horn of africa have underlined the need to work on a long-term and systematic approach to working on disaster risk reduction of vulnerable countries and populations. the eu development and humanitarian assistance is vital, but it is aimed mainly at coping with emergency situations. this needs to be supplemented with support to populations at risk to withstand, cope with and adapt to repeated natural disasters. i agree with this report as it underlines the importance of investing in measures that are more cost-effective than funding a disaster response after the event.
in writing. − work gives dignity to every human person, not even to women with disabilities. unfortunately, we are not able to create enough job opportunities for these women. if we really want a social europe, we have a responsibility to make it a top priority for all of us. the best way to achieve this is to see how we encourage women with disabilities and their relatives to prioritise skills over disabilities. as politicians we have an obligation to help harness the skills of women with disabilities to really have a just society.
in writing. - this report on 'women with disabilities' highlights an important issue. in the eu there are 80 million people with some disability and in malta we have about 6% of the population with some disability. it is a well-known fact that people with disabilities are at greater risk of dropping out of school early, not finding work and facing poverty and social exclusion. the situation faced by women with disabilities is worse than that of men. they face double discrimination on the grounds of disability and gender. there is much to be done and so the ep is taking responsibility and sending a clear signal. across the eu, austerity measures have led to cuts in public health schemes and social services. for people with disabilities this means less support, less adoptive education, and less funding for the institutions that care for and help them. for people with disabilities, work is not only a source of income but also a way of integrating into society. it should be our aim that women with disabilities have equal possibilities and opportunities to participate in social, economic and political life. he has determined to open those doors. my hope is that the commission, as well as the member states, will be taking a cue from this report to improve the quality of life of these people, by bringing forward disability policy for women using structural funds.
in writing. − the retail sector, being a crucial pillar of the eu economy, needs to adjust itself to recent developments and low consumer confidence. it is good that the action plan develops initiatives to further remove barriers in the internal market. with the nature of trade and retail developing rapidly, i particularly welcome the notion that all eu citizens should have unfettered access to cross-border online trade, no matter where they live.
in writing. − it is necessary to lift obstacles to free movement and establishment in the single market and remove discriminatory practices to show that the retail sector can compete on a level playing field. this report gives a clear indication to all stakeholders and institutions on how the action plan should be implemented, including in the context of e-commerce. i agree that actions must be taken to achieve a single market in retail by addressing the key obstacles that hinder the smooth functioning of this sector.
in writing. − the eco-innovation action plan contains a set of initiatives to improve eco-innovation. it puts the emphasis on the importance of green technologies as well as important other aspects of eco-innovation. this means better benefits for the environment and more growth and jobs.
in writing. − many consumers have faced difficulties in opening a payment account due to their lack of a permanent address in the member state where the payment service provider is located. i support the aim to solve this problem by improving the transparency and comparability of fee information relating to payment accounts, facilitating switching between payment accounts, eliminating discrimination based on residency with respect to payment accounts and providing access to a payment account with basic features within the eu.
in writing. − these initiatives seem to me very important because they give us the opportunity to learn more about the history and culture of other countries whose citizens are like us european citizens. it is a great satisfaction for us maltese that our capital city - valletta - will be the capital of culture in two thousand and eighteen, that is, from now and for three more years. a great deal of work is already underway to make known the history of our capital city, which is basically the history of malta, through this activity. valletta is endowed with great historical riches riches reflecting the history of the mediterranean. it is also endowed with natural beauty chief amongst which is the large port which is a unique harbour. i would like to take this opportunity to invite you now not to miss the opportunity to visit malta in the year 2000.
in writing. − the report focuses on developing guidelines and strategies to maintain consistency in the action of the european union. i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − this report proposes that any meeting of the european council should be preceded where possible by a debate in parliament allowing the adoption of a resolution, with the president of the european council coming to present the subjects on the agenda in person. i agree with this and have voted in favour.
in writing. − green infrastructure can contribute to improve the air quality, to create new recreational areas, prevent flooding in cities. green infrastructure can also provide job opportunities. i have therefore supported this.
