this weekend it became known that mr van rompuy has promised 5 billion in aid to egypt and i have serious questions about that aid commitment. in recent months egypt has moved further away from a democratic state of law rather than closer to it. the position of coptic christians has deteriorated, relations with israel are under pressure and the entire supreme court has been sidelined in the drafting of the new constitution. i would therefore like to know, mr president, what conditions are attached to this aid, but i also have questions about the budgetary coverage of this aid, plus the question of why van rompuy made this announcement and not mrs ashton. i would therefore like to hear an explanation from mr van rompuy and a debate in the near future. and i would like to ask you to take that question with you: when can we debate this, possibly as early as february? that's my question to you: when can we debate this with mr van rompuy?
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. it is necessary to respond to changes in trade, in demand, in production methods. it is also necessary for a transition to a green economy. but it can be bad if companies do not provide adequate care for workers affected by reorganization. especially in these times of crisis, it is a major shortcoming that the eu does not have a minimum standard, actual minimum rights for the care of workers. the practice in the member states is now very different, as is sometimes painfully evident in applications to the globalisation adjustment fund. employees seem to be disposable items in some cases. the eu wants businesses to reorganise to become more innovative, sustainable and competitive. but if we want that, we need the support of citizens and workers. we need to ensure those basic rights to enable people to deal with a little confidence in a changing economy. only then will we get that support. i am rather disappointed that employers and some member states are opposed to legislation in this area. i would think it is in everyone's interest to have a level playing field and to have well-prepared, flexible employees with confidence in the future. the ball is in your court now, commissioner andor.
this plenary debate, with four reports, is a fine extension of what we have already established in the mandate we are now negotiating with the member states, with the support of the european commission. and it really shows in the report on energy policy, in the report on spatial planning and in the report on urban development that we are pursuing an investment policy together, setting up investment funds and that we are going to do things differently. the same applies to the european solidarity fund, which helps in the event of disasters. this new approach - as mrs krehl has already said - in the form of a national contract, a partnership contract, allows member states to make choices in terms of knowledge and innovation, a smarter and greener europe, competitiveness and, above all, people at work. i would also like to mention in this new approach the smart specialisation in which we are connecting top people at different levels and giving a major boost to european integration. we are therefore moving in my view in europe at a higher rate of speed. it should and it can. too much of it will be doubled, and we can do a lot better. i think, ladies and gentlemen, that we should take a look at this point in the debate and see whether we are making it sufficiently visible with the member states. i note from my contacts in the member states that there is a lot of work going on, but that there is very little real communication with the people involved, with the companies, the universities and other partners in the regions and cities. if we go back to that citizen in 2014 and say, the biggest budget is the investment budget of the cohesion funds, so we have to give it more colour and flair. i call on the commissioner to come up with a real communication plan, before this year's holiday or just after, but with more than just a plan. five funds are asking for an extra commitment and i'm still seeing way too little of it.
unfortunately, there are regular reports of misuse of cohesion and structural fund grants. for example, recently some 150 million euros for polish smes went to a few multinationals. also, in poland, noise barriers were erected along a highway for miles, but alas, behind those barriers there is no one living! a voter asked me last week: yes, it's strange that a lot of eu money is being spent on all kinds of bike paths and village houses in the relatively rich netherlands. how could you? i thought it was a very good question, because in reality you cannot bring europe closer together with this kind of stupid projects. that's not the way we're supposed to do it. how could you? well, the subsidies from the various funds must go to the really poor regions in europe. and the spending there must add value to the village or the region. and of course there is a need for proper control of the expenditure of that money, because unfortunately we still do not have an approved accounting statement. he might come. so that's absolutely necessary.
today we look back at the cypriot presidency. it was not an easy six months and it was also cyprus' first rotating presidency of the european council. despite the limited size and experience, good progress has been made on a number of important issues. cyprus has rightly ignored the provocations of ankara, freezing relations with the rotating presidency and avoiding participation in meetings. that shows a lack of respect for the european union as a whole. i would like to commend cyprus and particularly the commitment of the cypriot presidency's civil servants for the progress made in the last six months. after 30 years, we have finally got a european patent, which is important for innovation and therefore a source of future employment. the agreement on the 2013 budget was also reached, allowing for the implementation of promised payments for concrete investments and projects. this too contributes to growth and employment. i mention these points specifically because unemployment and especially the fight against youth unemployment must be our top priority. that requires determination and action. the restoration of stability and confidence in europe and in our banking sector is also of great importance for this. and there has been progress on that, too. there is a common position on the common supervisory mechanism, the new european banking supervision at the ecb. the negotiations with the european parliament are currently under way and hopefully will soon be concluded. president. - mr president, i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment. the cypriot government failed to take the necessary measures to ensure a sustainable budgetary policy and to implement structural reforms to strengthen competitiveness. the commission also noted that the commission had not yet taken action on the issue of money laundering. this made the banking crisis all the more acute. unfortunately, the cypriot people are paying the price. i visited cyprus last week and saw the damage of the crisis, but also the entrepreneurial spirit and the resilience of the cypriot people. president. - mr president, i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendment tabled by mr pimenta, but i would like to ask the commissioner to give me a brief explanation of his position. it seems that this government cannot provide that and after the elections a new government is needed to provide the cypriot citizen with a new perspective.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. innovation should be our priority in europe, and yet we see that it is different. we see that the budget is in danger of being cut in half. we see that there is little coordination between the policies of the various member states and that there is little supervision to ensure that the rules we invent and put on the market work. it's all about the implementation. we saw last week in the netherlands in a news article about energy-efficient cars that these energy-efficient cars are not as efficient as they seem, because there is a lot of tweaking, say, of the windows, the conditions, the temperature, so that in the end what is presented to the consumer is something very different from what was actually intended. that energy-efficient car is not as efficient as it claims to be. so these rules are sometimes misleading, or rather we give them too much flexibility. how will you ensure that these rules are also properly implemented? because sometimes that's more important than new rules.
thank you, commissioner, but i am not satisfied with your answer. i am not so much concerned with energy policy as with how you are going to make the rules work. the proof is in the eating. not in making the rules, but in executing them. and it's just disappointing with too many rules. in this case i have just taken the example of energy, and whether it is the labelling of energy-efficient appliances, energy-efficient cars, quieter or energy-efficient car tyres, the consumer is simply being misled. there are too many differences between member states and too much freedom for manufacturers to make the rules their own. i would like to put a stop to that, and how are you going to do that?
immediately with three commissioners, it is so much and so rich. let me focus on the eit, the european institute for innovation and technology. we have wonderful researchers. we have great researchers, but a lot of our activities and high-earning capacities are flowing away around the world, and we should keep them here. so the question is: can we step up the eit not only through those kics, but also through having more regions and more universities forming regional innovation clusters? i know that you have been hesitating for rather a long time with regard to taking my ideas on board. can you be precise now? do we extend? do we get them on board in the new approach?
additionally, to both commissioners now present, the question is that 2014 will soon be here and we have to prepare our new programmes. what i am hearing in the countries is that there is too little enthusiasm for your new approaches. can you come forward with an intelligent communication strategy in the coming months? 2014 is a new year of programmes and elections, so can you wake up the member states with a communication?
in writing. − the report does not demand any substantial obligations on companies and employers as regards restructuring processes, nor does it seek to improve workers’ rights to information and consultation. it considers workers to be a flexibility reserve who have to ‘adapt’ to any changing circumstances or new strategy of the company, companies should strive to increase their ‘competitiveness’ by becoming ‘flexible firms’, also by promoting workers’ ‘internal and external mobility’. despite these shortcomings i voted in favour of the report because it puts pressure on the commission to take legislative action on information and consultation of workers, at which point these shortcomings can be addressed.
everyone was happy this morning, because the netherlands remains a triple-a country, according to standard & poor's, one of the rating agencies. but the netherlands has a record low consumer confidence, a negative individual savings rate, skyrocketing unemployment, enormously increased tax burdens and a government that is not cutting anything on senseless spending. and then the hundreds of billions in guarantees and loans to greece, portugal, spanish banks and the esm must also be written off, because that money will never come back. and all that means is a triple a, the highest score! and there's no word of criticism on this. there was criticism when the rating agencies called greece bankrupt. brussels did not allow this and this parliament now wants to set up its own rating agency which looks positively at europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the real state of the union is not what we want to hear here.
mr president, when the euro was introduced, all the countries had identical interest rates, and that has proved fatal. countries that traditionally rely on high inflation to evaporate excessive government debt continued to spend like crazy. that's why they're paying higher interest rates now. that's how the market works. but socialists and euro-lovers reject this market operation and that is why we need to have euro bonds. the member states are then jointly responsible for all the public debts and thus countries that have borrowed themselves into the grave are wrongly charged interest on the basis of the creditworthiness of countries that have taken slightly better care. rewarding bad behaviour and punishing good behaviour is the real core value of the european union. the result is that even more money will be spent that is not there so that we can explain to our grandchildren that their tax money has already been spent on the failed experiment of the sacred euro. is it technically possible to introduce eurobonds? yes, of course, i'm sure. do we have to do it? no, of course not!
the european parliament is in favour of the gradual pooling of debts in the euro area. but it is not enlargement that is needed, but the reduction of debt. eurobonds facilitate lending for euro area countries whose public finances and economic structure are in a weak condition. normally, financial markets stimulate these countries to cut back and reform, so that their sovereign bonds are again a safe investment. eurobonds weaken these incentives. this eliminates the risks of unequal economies. we have seen what this has led to since the introduction of the euro. the weak euro countries are now implementing reforms that should have been introduced earlier. the result: the commission has not yet received any comments from the applicant. euro bonds, on the other hand, are mainly a panacea and do not address the underlying causes of the macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pallone, for the good cooperation he has shown in this report on public finances, and i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for this report, which gives a balanced picture of where we are with public finances. i think we can all agree that we have to look very, very closely at these public finances. we must look at longterm reform and we certainly do not want investment in non-productive sectors or non-productive growth. that's very clear. but what the report also says very well is that we have problems in the eurozone. the economy will shrink in 2013, and that's partly because of that agenda of very strict austerity policies that have been implemented in recent years. that is also made clear in the report. we must not only focus on those cuts, but we must also look at investments to ensure that the economy in europe grows again. not the non-productive sectors, but simply the sectors that are going to make sure that we are going to generate sustainable growth again. that's important too. i have a question to the commission, to commissioner olli rehn, who says: we are already taking a great deal of this into account and this is mainly a continuation of what the commission has been doing in the semester. i often read other things in the commission's recommendations. i read this report and it is quite clear that parliament is calling for a shift in taxation away from labour towards environmental costs. how often do we see very clear recommendations from the commission making it very clear that in all the countries of the eu those taxes really need to be shifted? how often do we read in the recommendations that tax evasion should be tackled? how often do we read that it is really time for investment? how often do we read in recommendations that unnecessary defence spending should be reduced? it can be much tighter and this report really shows that the commission is only halfway there. yes, long-term investment is needed, but it is particularly important that the commission now tackles real issues such as tax evasion, more tax shifts away from labour to environmental costs, and away from unnecessary expenditure such as defence. the commission should make a much stronger effort to do so in the coming six months, and i would like to hear the commissioner say the same.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i cannot help feeling a degree of unease when i read the proposals; some of the elements have already been highlighted by colleagues, in particular mr sánchez presedo and mr hökmark, because the objective sounds excellent: less and better targeted state aid. we have been hearing the mantra for years, yet i cannot help but feel that these proposals are basically about making it easier on the one hand to grant state aid and on the other hand, making it more difficult to challenge the granting of state aid; making it more difficult for companies who, for example, feel that they have been put at a disadvantage. now, state aid is supposed to be something temporary, something exceptional. mr cofferati just mentioned when times are exceptionally hard we should be able to intervene but i get the feeling that with all the modifications in the state aid regime in recent years, state aid is becoming something structural. it is simply becoming part of the regular public expenditure and that cannot be the idea. it has to remain exceptional. the question has also not been answered, and it has been rightly raised by mr sánchez presedo, concerning the report which highlights that 40%, i think it was, of the aid which is granted under the exemption regime cannot be justified or may even be unjustified. how can we be speaking about relaxing the regime of state aid if this question has not been clarified first? finally, i join those who say ultimately this is not a mere administrative matter, this is about policy choices and i think it is high time and it would be welcome if the commission would join forces with parliament. it is high time that this becomes a matter of parliamentary competence as well.
the irish presidency has unfortunately already started very badly. if i look at the website of the irish presidency and try to look at the irish recipe book made especially for this irish presidency - a wonderful initiative by the way - it turns out to be a dead link. unfortunately, there is no recipe book. i therefore ask mr kenny to do something about this very quickly, because this is a bad start, mr president, a very bad start. but seriously, the presidency of the european union is always a wash. i wish ireland the best of luck in the next six months in having no more than one per cent of power. the person who does have power here is mr barroso. he just snuck out. that is a pity, because we are talking of course about a new maltese commissioner, because mr dalli was supposedly in contact with the tobacco lobby. we don't know that. barroso has given him a lot of theatre. however, it now appears that mr barroso's cabinet and other officials have had several contacts with the tobacco lobby. is there a huge double standard here or not? i call on the president of the commission to make all the information available to the whole parliament immediately and to stop these secret and insidious games. i would like to hear the president of the commission's response.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. well, who wouldn't? it's like having sunny weather and pleasant temperatures every day. we've all heard of this kind of ambition before. who does not remember the lisbon agenda and the europe 2020 strategy, which were to make europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world? and what happened to all those plans that sounded good? instead of growth, the european union has plunged us into economic recession. you can sprinkle so much with strategies, ambitions and fine words, but if the problems are not named, every plan is doomed to fail. the same is true of europe. the heart of the problem is europe, mr president. it is the european union itself. the eu cannot provide a solution simply because it is the problem. the eu and the euro are a millstone around the necks of the member states and their citizens. everything and everyone must surrender, nothing or no one is spared, except the eu. he's getting more money and more power. it's like they say: all pigs are equal, but some are more equal than others. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). instead of this bureaucratic monster, the future must again be about national states and citizens cooperating in a friendly way where it is really needed. it is free trade within europe and with the rest of the world that fuels economic growth. continuing with the european union is a dead horse. let us save europe from the hands of the european union.
this afternoon the open doors organization will be in this parliament at my invitation. all are welcome to attend the presentation of the 2013 world watch list at 3:00 p.m. that is a list of countries where it is dangerous for christians to live. what we are going to hear this afternoon is that in various countries minorities and christians literally have no life. for example, consider north korea, saudi arabia and afghanistan. but it will also be told in detail that in many countries the persecution of christians is increasing sharply, especially in african countries such as mali, ethiopia, kenya and nigeria. every week, pastors and churchgoers are killed and churches burned to the ground. the situation is much worse than it was a few years ago. in addition, christians in the countries of the so-called arab spring are being hampered. the new muslim rulers are certainly not as tolerant as we might have hoped. that is why my specific question to the presidency is: what are you going to do about the growing persecution of christians?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is regrettable we could not have this debate on the terrible situation in syria with the high representative herself when she finally did decide to fulfil her duties and appear before this parliament yesterday after a delay of two months. but more important is the eu’s impact in the world under her leadership. the high representative is in kosovo today, a country that reminds us of how long the damage of conflict can last. in the civil war in former yugoslavia too, it took europe too long to act. and history seems to repeat itself and it embarrasses us. for two years now, the situation in syria has been dragging on without decisive action by the international community, including the eu. it is a disgrace in light of the tens of thousands of people that have been killed. on top of the man-made disaster, which has also caused millions to leave the country or left them internally displaced, winter has come and a humanitarian crisis can turn into a weapon of war in the hands of assad if we do not intervene. recently, brahimi for the un, burns for the united states and bogdanov for russia came together to discuss the situation in syria once more. the main point is that the results of the talks were none, as has been the result with most talks including russia over syria. what was striking was the absence of the eu. where were we, commissioner, minister creighton? let us at least take the initiative now for a un security council resolution that will ensure that aid can reach people. this would be non-controversial, at least in comparison to the discussions around a political discussion, and could push aid through the criminal obstructions preventing the people from accessing basics such as food and medicine. another question is, why is sweden the only eu member state not in favour of referring assad to the icc? what is the reason for a lack of unity among our member states? we must save the syrians who are crushed, freezing and starving between a murderous regime and increasingly radicalised armed opposition. our priorities should be to stop the killing and the humanitarian disaster and we are a very long way from acting accordingly.
for the epp group in 2013, realpolitik in syria means the choice between two options. first, all military means are being used to bring about the departure of syrian president bashar al-assad. this choice implies a continuation of the civil war, a further destruction of syrian infrastructure, a humanitarian catastrophe of catastrophic proportions - i am speaking here also on behalf of the people of syria itself - and, above all, not to forget, continued instability in syria's neighbouring countries. two, or ending the syrian civil war really becomes the top priority right now. this second option requires the establishment of a political dialogue with the syrian regime. this choice also implies that the west, including the european council - i hope it is listening - must shift the focus of its political support from the syrian foreign to the syrian domestic opposition. the question that can be asked immediately is why no contacts are being made with the syrian peace movement, musalaha - i would like to hear that from the council, because i have never heard that before - which aims at national reconciliation, the laying down of arms and a future syria of peaceful coexistence. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i was hoping, after hearing the council, that this debate would provide some clarity on this point, but i am already sceptical.
with which iraqi partner does the eu actually want to conclude a cooperation agreement? this urgent question arises when we are faced with the fact that the two stream countries are in the midst of their deepest crisis since the end of the civil war in 2006-2007. critical elements of the crisis are piling up today. let me give you a few examples: the commission has already made a number of proposals. the differences of opinion on the federal structure of iraq and on the control of the armed forces are insurmountable. dangerously rising tensions between the country's shiites and sunnis as well as unresolved disputes between arabs and kurds. an increase in the number of politically motivated murders to 4471 in 2012. increasing sunni and shiite opposition to the concentration of power in the hands of prime minister maliki. there's already talk of a power monopoly. and then finally, the civil war in neighboring syria deepens the sectarian divide in iraq, as the assad regime recruits fighters from iraqi shiites, while the syrian rebels do the same from sunni iraqis. my simple question to the council and the commission is this: how do they think they can achieve an honourable partnership and cooperation agreement with this country so torn internally by the two currents?
president. - it is almost ten years since the americans announced the invasion of iraq by launching an air strike on the presidential palace in baghdad. we are 10 years on and the process of democratization as we wanted it to be is far from complete. this is not surprising, given the enormous challenges iraq faced in its reconstruction and development. but i note that iraq, despite its vast oil reserves, is one of the poorest countries in the world where the majority of the population has no access to basic needs, water, electricity and health care. it is of the utmost importance to us that iraq develops into a modern, prosperous and stable democracy, because only then can it play an important role in the region. if iraq is to become a genuine democracy and a state governed by the rule of law, the rights of the individual and of the collective must not only be fully recognized but also respected. the opposite is true here too, mr president. we see the growing revolt and tensions between sunnis and the predominantly shiite government. we see that the protection of religious minorities is not in order - mr belder has spoken about this. we see this for christians and for women's issues. there's an awful lot of things that aren't right. i therefore understand the criticism of my colleagues, because i have it too. i'm also very critical of how things are going there. but i say to my colleagues: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has any objections to the commission's proposal to extend the deadline for the submission of proposals to the council. i think we might have to be a little tougher on human rights. we must give them a chance, a last chance, when we sign the agreement. and if it doesn't, well, then we're not going to continue. so, mr president, i am satisfied with what we have now. just make sure it's carried out.
mr president, in iraq tensions among religious and ethnic groups are on the rise. the situation in the country is worsening. at such a critical time the eu is concluding a partnership and cooperation agreement with iraq. this year started with the killing of an assyrian woman. she was not the first to be murdered because of her religion. assyrians in iraq do not feel safe. their churches are under attack and perpetrators are not being brought to justice. in a country where individual ethnic groups have their own police force, the assyrians lack any police protection. the same is true of the turkmens of iraq. they are also alarmed by a wave of assassinations and abductions targeting their community. they face discrimination in the labour market and suffer from arbitrary detentions. i support the partnership and cooperation agreement, not in spite of, but because of these problems. the people of iraq need a deep, sustainable democracy, based on human rights, equality and the rule of law. how is the eu going to make sure that these principles are being upheld?
the bangladeshi ambassador we spoke to yesterday pointed out that for every t-shirt sold in the west, the bangladeshi textile worker, usually a woman, only gets a few cents left over. that's how it works in the textile business. the people who are the worst off, the worst negotiating position, are the textile workers. i'd say those are the real fashion victims. and then those kinds of circumstances lead to tragedies, like the fires in dhaka and karachi. we can and must do something about that. we can continue to work with voluntary labels, but this parliament says in this resolution that we want to move towards a commitment to responsible business. we want to commit ourselves to making sure that we produce clean clothes. i would like to know from the european commission how it is able to implement our wish for commitments.
today we are talking about corruption and fraud within the eu. we could debate this for weeks today, given its scale, but today we are dealing with the effects of fraud and corruption on the decision-making process. we'll end up at dalligate. the former commissioner's office is surrounded by a very unpleasant smell, a tobacco smell, a smell of bribery. a hint of a conflict of interest between the underworld and the upper world. i have a card here, made by my esteemed colleague grässle, and when you study it, fear beats you to the heart. but not just fear, but a lot of anger. if former commissioner dalli is found not guilty of the charges against him, then the commission, and mr barroso in particular, has a serious problem. if he's found guilty, he's guilty, too, because as president, he's ultimately responsible for his team. i am not making a judgment here on guilt, but i do note that corruption and fraud are very, very close to the commission here, if not in the commission. i therefore ask for a thorough investigation by our committee on budgetary control, but also by an independent external party, not by olaf, because that does not work here. in particular, have the maltese public prosecutor's office thoroughly investigate the matter. president, 'dalligate' shows for the umpteenth time that the eu is not working. the pvv has long been convinced of this.
i am working towards a socially just and transparent europe that is trusted and supported by its citizens. citizens must be able to trust that community money is being spent properly. if we want to tackle misuse of european money at european level, we must also ensure that our own funds are in order. recently, reports have emerged that eu funds have been misused in poland. the european social fund, which was intended to strengthen small and mediumsized enterprises, has been used to provide training courses for managers of large multinationals. my question to the commission is: did these millions really go to multinationals? shouldn't the money go to promoting employment? will the european commission actually be investigating? first of all, we must prevent such practices and tighten up the rules. abuse must be punished and funds must be recovered if wrongly granted. only in this way will the citizens' confidence in the eu be restored.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - as my colleague says, we are indeed talking about ratifying the first european partnership agreements (epas) for africa, and in that light it is very sad that commissioner de gucht is not here today. i am the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation and the committee on development and cooperation advises against ratifying the epas for the seychelles, mauritius, madagascar and zimbabwe. if the committee on development and cooperation does that, it means that we have looked at the development aspects of these epas. it is clear that it does not contain any proposals for sustainability and respect for human rights. it does not contribute to regional integration, but it does call for extreme liberalisation. a country like madagascar has already asked for a delay in introducing this epo. and if we say "yes, they signed it themselves", i'd like to say "caricom"! caricom signed and now regrets it like a hair on his head. ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first and not the last epo we're going to get. we will soon have the epo for cameroon. the committee on development and cooperation says: this is becoming more like a normal free trade agreement and not something that should have a development aspect. a country like madagascar, which could also trade under the heading 'everything but arms', is being given an epo here, the depth of which i do not think they understand. it is also our responsibility to look after those developing countries and their real development, not our free trade.
"blue card" question. what is it? i have a simple question for mr michel. i said in my speech that a country like madagascar, a least-developed country, can also trade with the european union under the rules of 'everything but arms'. can mr michel tell me what madagascar gains by signing the interim economic partnership agreement? what more could it export to europe than it can now?
there is a lot of talk now about institutional problems, about problems with the wto. in europe we are making legislation which seeks to emphasize the social dimension of europe and a human life in european industry. that's good. that's good. we make laws about the environment. i see a whole lot of problems now in getting this regulation through. i am a lawyer and, commissioner, you were a lawyer. i think that we should then take a different approach and not continue to require that products imported from other countries bear the indication of origin. i think you should turn it around. i would say introduce a voluntary designation of origin in europe, made in the eu or made in germany, but then immediately attach to it strict conditions, that everything, including everything, must be produced in that country or in that part of the world and enforce that. so make it voluntary, but not optional. if we can do that, we can at least provide the consumer with clarity and transparency that a product is actually made in germany or in the european union. it is not possible that i buy a suit with a made in germany label and only the buttons are buttoned in germany and the rest is made in the rest of the world, in low-cost producing countries. because then i think i'm buying a quality product and basically i'm just wearing a chinese suit.
for the epp group the unspeakable details of the gang rape of a 23-year-old promising flower of the indian nation in mid-december last year have touched me deeply. i can imagine the violent reactions at home. the torturous humiliation of the brave young woman to the end of her life is also, and quite rightly, attributed to the utterly distorted immoral view and behaviour towards female indian citizens, especially when these women enjoy a low or even no social standing. the absolutely unacceptable failure of the indian authorities is evident. that should be the strong european message to our indian partners. at the same time, my christian faith has convinced me of the value of the biblical image of man. for india and europe: our bodies are temples of the holy spirit! whoever violates that, man or woman, touches god himself! it is precisely this awareness that will protect, indeed enrich, the culture and society of india and europe.
- a writer. - there are times when a resolution gives a real clear mandate. there are also times when a resolution like this is actually a cry for help in the human rights debates, because the central african republic is a country, a failing state, surrounded by failing states, which for decades no one has been able to make chocolate out of, in plain dutch, and no one knows where it is going. i have given this matter a lot of thought and now that i have commissioner de gucht, i think i should at least ask one practical question. and that 's this one: the central african republic is one of those typical countries with resources, in this case diamonds, that are traded both by rebels and, of course, by a corrupt government. everyone makes money, but the population doesn't get richer. so far, diamonds from the central african republic are still allowed to be traded and i would like to ask you: would like to ask you to investigate and temporarily stop trade in diamonds from the central african republic in the context of the kimberley process. because one thing we know for sure, as long as there is illegal activity, both rebels and governments can arm themselves and the violence will continue. thank you, sir.
the common agricultural policy, mr president, is out of date, and the system of agricultural subsidies is not at all out of date. farmers are hardworking entrepreneurs. let them do what they do best, without any interference from brussels, and certainly not linked to and dependent on the brussels infusion of subsidies. that's why the pvv says: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. they can decide for themselves whether and how they want to support their agriculture. and as if the netherlands, one of the biggest net contributors, were not contributing enough to the eu, the rapporteur is asking for just a few million more for agriculture on the greek islands in the aegean sea. no matter how much money the eu puts into agriculture, money trees don't grow anywhere. greece is still practically bankrupt despite the billions in aid. so it must be the end of carrying more water to the sea. that is why the pvv says 'no' to this report.
the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment. that's over 1 billion women in total, and that immediately indicates the scale of the problem. the european parliament last week showed its support for the victims by dancing with a large group of its members for the one billion rising campaign. on february 14th, an estimated 1 billion people will dance against violence against women. but i also ask the commission to do something, in particular a european strategy to prevent violence against women with - and this is very important - a specific budget, promoting the convention to eliminate violence against women and a clear position against violence against women at the un summit on the status of women. i hope the commission will take action on this!
president. - i would like to make a few points as rapporteur for the regional funds. we are now in the trilogues and we too are finding that smes are very unable to get money. so it's time to take a different approach. we have now agreed that a fifth of the budgets - and i will be speaking shortly in the european regional development fund about thirty billion euros - will be allocated to smes if they come up with an innovative, active and creative approach which also offers prospects. that's a whole different approach. we are moving from grants to guarantees, to instruments of this kind, which are being used through the eib. the same thinking is also present in the horizon programme. so, there are some very strong measures being taken. but still, a note. the european commissioner tajani is quite right when he points to the member states. as has already been shown, there is very little enthusiasm for linking these european instruments to the multiplicity of national programmes. if the commissioner says that he wants to go around, to tour the horizon, to do a road show through the countries, he is right. i am happy to support him, because in my own member state, the netherlands, too, the eib is not being used sufficiently and we need to take steps in cooperation between companies and regions. secondly: i spent the summer in silicon valley. if you look at how the tools there work with entrepreneurs, there's a lot of things we can learn from that. we must promote the entrepreneurial climate, deal creatively with training, etc. and that european campaign of mr tajani, which is also proposed in the report, must really happen. very soon, on 21 march, i will be organising my own event in the european parliament for the dutch target group, but we can and must do much better together.
- i'm the reporter. − first of all, i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation. who does not want to live a happy and healthy life for as long as possible rather than disappear behind the geraniums? the commission wants to add two healthy years to people's lives, and i welcome that. my report gives some suggestions for making these years healthy, but also happy and appreciated. active and healthy ageing means that you are taking care of solidarity between generations. it means that the current economic crisis must not in any way affect human needs and dignity. it means that we now need a clear strategy from the commission to ensure social cohesion. overall health can be improved by ending health inequalities due to differences in socioeconomic positions. it is also vital that elderly care remains viable in these times of austerity. people who are dependent on care should be able to rely on it unconditionally. a 3% requirement from brussels must never affect the basic needs and dignity of people. and if there is any need for cuts, i have a few suggestions to make to the commission. make public health a real priority now. how often do we see that when it really comes to improving air quality and the environment, banning controversial food additives, clearly labelling what is in food, short-term economic interests are chosen? now, you make sure that public health really comes first. people stay healthier longer, and that's the only way to make real savings. in this context, it is also of great importance to pay more attention to preventive health research. after all, healthy aging begins at birth. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have the impression that they too are mainly designed to cut costs. computers are cheaper than human caregivers. but they cannot replace people. personal contact is important for older people. loneliness and social isolation are problems we must not forget. eu projects should therefore focus on the social well-being of older people in addition to health, for example by helping member states to adapt their environments to an ageing population. age discrimination also needs to be addressed. more than half of all over-55s in the eu are unemployed, and that's not surprising when you see that in the netherlands, for example, only 2% of all open jobs go to over-55s. at the same time, the right to dismiss is being relaxed under pressure from the european commission. if you ask people to work longer and stay active, you have to give them the opportunity to do so. equal access to employment, education, health care, but also to insurance, for example, contributes to an active, happy and healthy life in old age. the last point concerns pensions. pension schemes are a national matter, but under pressure from the commission, there is a need for increasing cuts in pensions. everyone should be able to live a decent life in old age, but unfortunately poverty still exists among many elderly people, especially among older women, and this has a negative impact on health. many women do not work all their lives and therefore accumulate less pension. people who do work that is not recognized as such, for example for the family or as a caretaker, should not be punished for it in old age. i hope that the commission will listen to these opinions and that we have a good policy for the elderly in the future.
the fisheries policy must be environmentally, economically and socially sustainable. we're going to make some important decisions tomorrow. how are we gonna do that? rational or emotional? the debate on the discard ban has been very black and white. the reality is more complex. care is important. i've asked norway for advice on the disposal. they started reducing waste 25 years ago. some important lessons are: one, it can only be done step by step. the norwegians have started with a discard ban for only one species. two, it's learning by doing. the third. the norwegians say: 100% reduction is not possible. tailor-made measures and exceptions are needed, particularly in mixed fisheries. the epp amendment to article 15 is therefore very good. this amendment is in keeping with the complex reality. tailor-made work is only possible through the multiannual plans. i support that amendment. care is important. we are not here to legislate! let us vote tomorrow on legislation that is both ambitious and feasible.
the north sea has always been one of the most important fishing grounds in europe. this sea, the north sea, seemed bottomless, a kind of perpetual motion. it couldn't open, the fish kept coming. and then it was 1977. the last herring looked like it was fished out of the north sea. fishermen desperately switched to other, not yet commercial, fish species. europe was faced with a six-year ban on herring fishing. and let me repeat that: for six years, no herring was caught! such a measure would be politically impossible today, just look at the bluefin tuna. but after six years the situation was restored and the ship was able to sail again. 45 years later, we realize that the world's oceans are what the north sea was then, no longer bottomless, but one big aquarium. commissioner and mrs rodust, i would like to thank you very much for your efforts. and, ladies and gentlemen, whether we like it or not, whether it suits us politically or not, the laws of nature are ultimately the ones that determine the limits and not the short-term economic interests.
mr president, the fisheries sector is indeed about sustainability and at the same time about regionalisation, innovation and modernisation. and there's a good suggestion. i am referring to the dynamics in the sector. such a transferable, negotiable quota instrument is a good instrument for this. it also helps to take old boats out of service and at the same time introduce more efficient and better fishing boats. the member states are best placed to ensure that this is done. innovation is also a sector-wide issue. look at the by-catch, too. there are new systems that allow you to put the fish overboard alive, without killing it. there are systems that make that possible. we should encourage this kind of innovation, not block it. i would ask the commissioner to look at the example of dutch fishermen from volendam, the schilder brothers, who have developed such a fish-pulling machine. finally, the european funds, not only the fisheries fund but also the regional funds, make it possible to work in a different way. the aim is to stimulate economic and social activities in coastal areas. i wanted to emphasize this, especially for the coming years. it is not just about sustainability at sea, but also in coastal zones for the people who work in the fisheries.
mr president, my support today will depend on mrs fraga's amendment. it is a crucial amendment which must be adopted, because a complete ban on discarding will lead to major problems for the fisheries sector. it is therefore important that the commission first look at the effects of such a discard ban. because to introduce such a measure all at once will have a very bad effect, especially on the mixed fisheries sector. and after that, let us determine what concrete measures are feasible, especially for the control plans by species. after such an examination we can gradually reduce unwanted by-catches. there is one major contradiction in this whole debate, and that is the ban on discarding. europe wants to introduce a ban on discarding, but why is it that many do not want to introduce the pulse corks? the pulse is an innovative fishing technique that greatly reduces by-catches. we have to allow the pulsar!
in writing. − i voted for the report on sme financing today because i strongly support smes. however, the future success of smes and their contribution to job creation over the coming years will depend on governments putting in place economic policies which will allow smes to flourish and to develop quality products and services.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional policy. - mr president, my contribution will be in a very different direction from that of the previous speaker, who does not see this alignment and coherence. i am also speaking as coordinator and as rapporteur-negotiator for the regional funds. i see an opportunity to ensure a much better streamlining in the synergy between the own budgets that europe makes available and the responsibility of the member states. we have developed a specific set of tools for this purpose in the context of the semester. of course, we have to get experience with it. but it is the implementation plans for the five funds that europe has made available. we have set out measurable results and also, from the point of view of regional policy, ex ante conditions for the opening up of the funds. so it goes a little further than just monitoring budgets. synergy between the member states and the union is increasing. each member state concludes a partnership agreement on what needs to be achieved and that whole socio-financial area is contained in it. i would like to make one further comment, however. the regional committee sees that the 25% figure, which is now also in the lope fontagné report, is drawn up in a very clear line. we have noted in the discussions with the council, now in the trilogues, that the needs of each country can be very different. in some countries, for example, you want to invest more in research, educational infrastructure, innovation, etc., which also leads to jobs. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we are faced with an almost insoluble dilemma between the council, which wants much less, and parliament, which wants to be part of that.
mr president, we are voting this week on two different reports on the annual growth analysis, one from the economic angle and one from the social angle, as we did last year when i had the honour of being one of the rapporteurs. but whereas last year both reports were quite well matched and we did our utmost to achieve the best possible result with a strong vote from the european parliament, this year the contrast could not be greater. the report from the committee on employment is good and strong again this year. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs lope fontagné, who, in cooperation with all the parties, has managed to achieve a broad consensus on the issues that are essential to the people of europe. a focus on job creation, by asking all member states to really come up with a job plan this year. a focus on differentiated austerity, which gives economies a chance instead of destroying them. a focus on balanced austerity, which gives vulnerable people a chance instead of pushing them into poverty. and a focus on more democratic control for parliaments and civil society organisations. the report by mrs lope fontagné is a position which we as a parliament can proudly take to the council and to the commission to ask them to incorporate it in their conclusions. the econ report, on the other hand, is frankly a big mess. that committee should be ashamed of the way in which this report has been produced. the european parliament has been the subject of a number of reports, and i am sure that the commission will be able to give its opinion on them. the debate on the crisis has two faces, that is the way it is. the finances must be put back in order and the budgets must be brought back into balance. but it also requires a very strong fight against poverty and unemployment and the protection of the most vulnerable citizens. the challenge for us as politicians from left to right is to reconcile these two faces. that's where we need to put all our energy, not in internal chatter.
the european commission, mr president, is once again hoping for growth, because growth must be the solution to the enormous public deficits. but there's no growth. the member states are in the grip of the euro. the south craves inflation, whereas the north's economy is based on a hard and stable currency. this morning, french president hollande asked for exchange rate policy. and we do need that, but at exchange rates between member states. the dismantling of the euro is a prerequisite for economic recovery. but even that won't be enough. decades of socialist policies have pushed the government's share of the total economy to unsustainable heights, and the taxes to pay for those policies squeeze the life out of every economy. small government, small debt, low taxes. that is the recipe for restoring economic growth. but until then, the european commission will publish a forecast each year, which will contain the hopes for growth. but hope is not a strategy.
we are talking about the european semester, which aims to coordinate european economic policy, and that is fine. but we should not prescribe, because as history shows, the guided economy has never helped. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i have just heard even mr zijlstra, who was talking about abolishing the euro, but fortunately he has very little contact with the business people, who are earning their money in this single market and are not waiting for an exchange rate to be changed again, because we have been working on this for far too long and it has cost us about 8 to 10% of total turnover. we must inspire confidence and communicate confidence to business and to the european citizens. that trust is about the most important thing there is. you can have a business, you can make a product, but if your customer doesn't have confidence in your product, you're not going to sell anything. you're not getting anywhere. that's what we need to look at. i now turn to the report by my colleague, mr andreas schwab, because even mr cameron said in his critical speech that the core business of europe is the single market, and i agree with him. it is very important that we bring together many national laws into one regulation, which works the same way throughout europe. the obstacles which each member state raises must be removed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have to get rid of it. secondly, it's very important to communicate what we're doing here. now, show the smes and the citizens what europe is doing, what is so important to them in their daily lives. we spend hundreds of millions on communications and then a survey shows that 30% of smes do not know what the added value of the single market is for them. so that means our communication is not good. we must look at how we can improve that communication and not invest those means of communication in salaries.
in writing. two comments on the annual growth analysis and the ferreira report: firstly, competitiveness. last week professor hans-werner sinn spoke about what is needed: the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. to what extent is this part of the european commission's analysis and of the country-specific recommendations? secondly, the budget. if the european union were to cut back on non-core tasks, member states could use the money for social and economic policies. i am thinking of european money for education, culture and the media. both the commission and parliament overestimate the role of the eu budget in promoting economic recovery. the council is more realistic. this is why we must continue to fund the european union from the member states. so there will be no new own resources and no higher multiannual financial framework. joint debt issuance is not a good idea either. debt should be reduced rather than facilitated.
when i went with a delegation from this parliament to the nagoya biodiversity summit in 2010, i was seven months pregnant. my son is now two years old, and the goals we agreed on in japan seem further away than ever. as objective number six: prevent the extinction of endangered species and restore the most endangered populations by 2020. in fact, the reports are becoming more alarming. a russian expert from the iucn recently predicted that the polar bear could be extinct within a generation. i want my son to grow up not to have to look him in the eye and say that this generation of politicians has failed to do anything about this. and cites is one of the tools we have to protect vulnerable species, in this case by restricting international trade in endangered species. my central question is whether the council and the commission can guarantee that they will go to bangkok with an ambitious mandate. i have a reasonable feeling about the commission after hearing the introduction. i'm not yet used to that ambition in the council. for example, the last time in 2010 the council refused to include the polar bear in annex 1. can the council now state whether it is prepared to do so this time? and will the other suggestions made by parliament on the classification of animals also be accepted? and i would like to thank mr groote for the report he has written on this. other points to which we should pay attention - and they have already been mentioned: restricting the market for derived products of protected species, rhino horn, ivory. because if there's no market, there's less need to strip. we must also work to limit and monitor the flow of illegal wildlife within the eu, for example by knowing more about what is happening on the internet. finally, we must improve the internal decision-making of cites. i am glad to have heard at least something from the council about that. i hope that the negotiators in the council and the commission will also want to leave this earth in a better state for their children and grandchildren. and that they're raising the ambition a notch higher than what i've heard so far. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
"blue card" question. what is it? i wanted to thank mrs de lange for her compassionate contribution to this debate on the protection of endangered species. but endangered species are not just polar bears. these are also animals that are found in europe. we are now discussing the european agricultural policy. this is crucial for the conservation of endangered species within europe. are you prepared to give your full support to this greening of the european agricultural policy?
"blue card" is the answer. the risk here is that we will have a european agricultural debate. i believe that greening and productivity in the european agricultural policy are two sides of the same coin. but we are going to have a very hard fight in this house about whether the european commission's proposals are the right ones. so greening, yes, and then for me it's about the goals that need to be realized and not just lip service. greening, yes, but not necessarily in the way proposed by the european commission.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on one side this cites debate is about the regular issues that are on the agenda next month and they are important. i very much hope that we will succeed in giving several shark species stronger protection. i regret the fact that no-one even tried to put bluefin tuna on the agenda. i call upon the commission and the member states to fight, in unity this time, for the elimination of secret voting within cites and for the adoption of the ‘introduction from the sea’ principle. but i would also like to focus on something else. the commissioner has already addressed it. no matter how many animals we put on the strongest protection annex, we run the risk that it will only benefit the last tiger, rhino or elephant alive due to the explosive increase in poaching. the illegal trade in animal parts is extremely profitable. rhino horn is being sold nowadays for an average of eur 0.5 million. museums have to lock those rhino horns behind closed doors to avoid being robbed. even plastic horns are being stolen. illicit trade in wildlife has exploded into a eur 15 billion criminal enterprise, rivalled only in size by trade in illegal arms and drugs. but the risks in wildlife crime are so much smaller. it is an uneven fight between heavily armed criminal gangs against a few brave rangers. international crime is focusing on wildlife crime and so are rebel groups, using the profits to buy new arms. obviously the regular cites work should continue, but i also expect from the bangkok conference an intensive debate about wildlife crime. hillary clinton has called for the creation of a global system of regional wildlife enforcement networks. the eu should be part of this as well, but we need more. we need an international action plan to fight wildlife crime. i am asking the commission and the council if they are willing to team up with the united states to set up such an action plan.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment. a un convention is simply trying to stop the trade in endangered species and it actually does that mostly with votes, which is pretty unique in the un. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. cites is a vote for real. it is important that these votes be transparent so that we know what the position is in all the different countries of the world. i am very glad that europe really wants to do something about this, both the commission and the council have mentioned this point. but another point - and i am a little more concerned about that - is what exactly the council will be doing. i have heard very clearly the commission's priorities and those priorities are reasonably consistent with what parliament wants. but what are the council's real priorities? how are we to ensure that europe is prepared to travel to bangkok on time? because that is always one of the problems of europe. we may have good plans, but we arrive unprepared, as in 2010 in doha. we did not know at the time when we had reached our conclusions, and we were therefore constantly losing to the chinese and japanese lobby. how are we going to prevent that from happening again in bangkok this year? the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is incredibly important that cites now also goes ahead and prohibits the trade in marine species. but europe is still unclear on this. what is the council going to do, what is the irish presidency going to do to ensure that europe goes to bangkok prepared with a clear position? finally, a specific question to the council. the european parliament has very clear priorities on polar bears, tigers. what is the council's view on this and to what extent will it support the european parliament's efforts to ensure that the protection of endangered species in bangkok is strengthened?
mr president, this parliament still has no respect for the citizens it claims to represent. and that's why it's a sham parliament. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. no, mrs hohlmeier, the really important words should be 'cutting the budget', 'cutting where possible' and above all 'less europe'. it's a curse in the european church, but i'm happy to do it. as long as there are buckets of money going to the southern member states to maintain their fragile state system, as long as dutch taxpayers are bent over to keep the thousands, nay tens of thousands of overpaid civil servants here doing their unnecessary work, there is only talk with the netherlands about reducing the 2014 budget. why is business class still flying? why haven't the service limos been abolished? is there still a strasbourg moving circus? why does mr barroso earn a monthly salary sufficient for a year's modal income in the netherlands? why does a vice-president of this parliament earn 23,000 euros a month? questions i think i already know the answer to, unfortunately. because for years this parliament has been indifferent to the citizens it claims to represent. that is why this parliament and this eu must be abolished as soon as possible to avoid worse. (the president agreed to answer a question in the form of a 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. i would like to answer the question put by my honourable friend, a liberal of the right, i think. one of the fundamental principles of liberalism is, for example, to give free enterprise a wide margin. i believe that the recovery in europe will come about by giving free rein to entrepreneurship through the member states, in the member states, under national sovereignty, and by abolishing the whole circus in europe here. we don't need it!
the economic crisis and austerity policies have increased the number of people living in poverty in europe to an absolute record. at the same time, meps are still receiving allowance after allowance. there's no way to explain that to people. more and more people are not accepting that either and are calling meps sheep-herders. that's why i want to: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the european parliament elections, and that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the european parliament elections. by adopting these proposals, parliament can show its solidarity with the people living in poverty in europe in the vote tomorrow. it can also further alienate the voter if it rejects them. i hope that my colleagues will choose solidarity, as my group has done.
on behalf of the s&d group, as it turns out, every vote counts. and so it will be tomorrow. this is also the case throughout the european union, where noise is one of the major health problems. over 50,000 heart attacks can be directly related to noise pollution. this is especially true for low-income people who live near highways, in crowded cities, usually in the most poorly insulated homes. they are the ones who are most exposed to noise. then the question is every time how do you balance that against employment? i'll get back to that. how is the noise problem being solved at the moment? by doing some symptom management. very high noise barriers are being erected all over europe, sometimes even with the help of the structural funds. in some countries we have seen a huge race in recent years to build huge, high sound barriers behind which there are cows. it could be much simpler, namely tackling the noise at the source. and the source of the sound, that's the car! it is also the car engines that can be changed at a fairly low cost, up to 60 euros per engine for passenger cars and 750 euros per truck. we in the european union always talk about job creation and innovation. then we must show that we mean it. we are talking about possible impacts on employment, but is it not true, commissioner, that your own impact assessment makes it very clear that you do not expect any job losses here, but rather job creation? if implemented properly, this scheme will bring innovation, lower health costs and, most importantly, better health for all europeans.
traffic, transportation, cars have brought us great wealth. it also creates a lot of jobs, and that's fine. but traffic is also a nuisance, and that is what we are talking about tonight. this burden must be reduced in cooperation with industry. if industry provides quieter engines, the government does not have to bear all the other costs, because the government is already investing in quieter roads. the government invests taxpayer money in soundproofing, in soundproofing of houses, etc. it is good that industry is meeting the requirements that are being set. the compromise adopted in the envi committee is a good balance. i hope that the same test methods will be used throughout europe. that is why i have tabled an amendment along these lines with my colleague, mr holger krahmer. in the end, this will lead to a better competitive position of the european automotive industry, because technical progress always offers a better competitive position for the european industry in this sector.
we are actually having another incredibly classic debate. we identify a theme, noise pollution, that a lot of people are suffering from. we want to do something about that. and we also know that europe must do that because there has to be a level playing field for all car manufacturers. but then, when we want to do something about it, the conservative side immediately calls out: this is too expensive for the manufacturers, they can't have this now. it's always a crisis. so all of a sudden we have to take it easy. and suddenly we're not talking about the cost that society pays every day to build noise walls, that society pays every day for health care for people who suffer from this. that's not what we're talking about. suddenly we are talking about what industry needs to do to adapt, whereas this is about innovation to make it internationally competitive. we're not talking about that anymore. the commission's proposal is apparently over-ambitious. i can rarely catch the commission on that, but in this proposal they would all of a sudden be advocating the end of the car industry? i have never heard the commission do that! so where's that coming from? where do these stories come from that this would mean the end of the european car industry? what nonsense, what total nonsense! this is a proposal to make cars less noisy. people benefit from this, it means less cost to society, and car manufacturers benefit from this by investing in innovation. that's what the debate is about. so reject amendment no 61, which would further water down the proposal. we are sticking to the compromise amendment of the envi committee and we will stick to it. and please, no nonsense about the fact that every time we want to do something, it means the end of the car industry, because the car industry in europe is very competitive and also very vibrant. the people who think that this industry can be so quickly crushed have little faith in european innovation, and that seems to me to be more serious.
the negotiations on the multiannual budget of the european union, or rather on the distribution of the tax revenues of the european citizen, will continue from tomorrow. you are hereby summoned to the chorus: we need money! but the question for the citizen is: what money? there's no money at all. why else do you think all countries should be cutting so much? the crisis has left us broke! what the european union wants is to take money from the hardworking citizens and from future generations, who are saddled with huge debts. you call that solidarity. i call that immoral. this whole budget of the european union is a monster, the bulk of which is wasted on outdated cohesion policy and terrible agricultural policy. what about the european civil service? there are as many as 5,000 civil servants around who earn more than our dutch prime minister. it is a scandal! no penny to be added, as much as possible to be taken out of the budget. the less money goes to the european union, the better it is for citizens in the member states.
tomorrow is the start of the summit on the european multiannual budget and i call on the heads of state or government to build up confidence. this is the chance to restore the credibility of the european union. a credible european union is a european union that is future-proof. a union that puts innovation and strengthening competitiveness at the forefront. that is the precondition for promoting employment again. i would like to mention two concrete examples of future-proof and future-oriented measures: the european union is investing in a new sea lock at terneuzen. - i'm going to be fine. the european union is going to invest billions in a new graphene development programme. that is the way it should be, that is forward thinking, that is a credible european union with added value. the question is whether all heads of state and government will be so impressed. the european union is a reserve fund for some people, alongside their own national budgets. agricultural and structural funds are often used to supplement their own wishes and that does not help the european union to move forward. that is the way too often budgets are handled. that does not strengthen the confidence of the citizens in europe. the fact that parliament is also considering using a communication budget of €2 million to influence twitter discussions on the european union in a positive way is counterproductive in this respect. criticism of the european union and the european parliament should not be countered by a barrage of positive propaganda, but by learning from and acknowledging and correcting mistakes made. that's building trust. it is necessary!
"blue card" question. what is it? our interpreters always do an excellent job and i think i have heard the interpretation correctly, namely that mrs sousa is advocating that the budget should provide for access to health care for the elderly. i heard that part of your text. europe must not interfere in everything, let us concentrate on the things europe must do. i do not think that it is the task of europe to regulate access to health care for the elderly, however difficult it may be for them, and i readily admit that. but we don't have to do that here.
it has already been said by a number of people that it is not just the size of the budget that is important. i do not think we can have a budget that is in deficit every year forever. we are doing exactly what the member states are not doing, or are at present doing in their own member states at the insistence of the european commission. in addition, a number of points are important that do not cost money. i too believe that a new system of own resources must be introduced. the present system, where we make commitments and then the member states refuse to make the money available to pay those bills, is not acceptable. each year the european court of auditors issues a negative statement on the reliability of the accounts. that's got to change. this can only be achieved if there is greater political responsibility in the member states, and that means that a member state declaration is needed to ensure that the money is better spent.
after all that's been said, i've got four points left. the first point is accountability of financial resources. as mr mulder has said, it is unacceptable, also for the citizens of europe, that we are not able to justify the expenditure of the european union through the national management declarations. the second point is innovation. we believe that innovation should also be given a much greater prominence in the traditional budgets for agriculture and regional expenditure. less transfer costs, more innovation. the third point concerns flexibility. we need to have more flexibility in that multiannual budget so that we can respond to current developments in europe. and the fourth point, after consideration, is a seven-year multiannual financial framework. there's too much uncertainty in those annual budgets. you can't do big projects if you have to do them year after year. and why are we doing all this? to give hope to the youth of europe, to protect the social market economy, to create a sustainable economy which also promotes the values of europe for the next seven years.
the european parliament has been a party to the peace process since the beginning of the year, and it is not the european parliament that is responsible for the peace process. the ppe group therefore did not think that there was any need for a debate on this now, since we are also discussing the resolution on turkey in the near future. president gül also said it, less talking and more doing, more working, that should be the motto. the debate has been prompted by the appalling provocations that have taken place in akari and in paris. because not everyone wants peace to come. there's been an armed struggle since 1984. it's cost tens of thousands of lives. we have always expressed our horror at the pkk's terrorism. in 2009, we saw that there should be a democratic opening. it has not been fully realized. then, at the end of 2011 and 2012, all of a sudden, there are these talks between the government and abdullah öcalan. we hope that a lasting solution will be found, but that can only be achieved if there is broad support. in this respect, i, like the commissioner, commend the opposition parties who are also making it possible and the civil society which is now so positive about it. negotiating takes courage, you have to jump over your own shadow. only then can we reach a historic agreement that is good for all turkish citizens. if that is incorporated in the new constitution, then every turkish citizen should be satisfied. i am convinced that when that calm and peace comes, it will also be the beginning of greater prosperity in the south-east of turkey.
for the epp group the dismantling of the kemalist state in turkey by the akp has raised great hopes among the kurds. hoping for the eventual official recognition of their own ethnic national identity. after more than 10 years of akp rule, this ardent kurdish desire is far from being granted. this was certainly due to a very confusing inconsistency on the part of the akp governments. prime minister erdogan recently took up the cause. he spoke of the supra-ethnic identity of turkish citizenship, in which turks, kurds and others are equal. at the same time, he spoke of one state, one flag, one homeland, one nation. this contradictory position of the akp was also manifested in the years following the so-called kurdish opening or the democratic opening of 2009. secret talks with the akp, the oslo talks, cultural concessions in the field of language versus - and this has already been said by mr lambsdorff - a veritable wave of arrests of kurdish dignitaries. no wonder the kurds see this akp policy as one step forward and two steps back. meanwhile, the kurds persistently continued to build a parallel state in turkey, a reality that prime minister erdogan also openly acknowledges and militantly rejects. but that is not the way to solve the kurdish question. a solution may be a multi-ethnic state model for turkey. in the other case, the race between the turkish republic and the kurdish parallel state threatens to end in the demand for secession by that parallel state. the european parliament has already voted on this, and not only the kurds but also the turks, albeit anonymously. no unreal sounds, now that ankara sees itself placed in autonomous kurdish scenarios on the country's borders. (the speaker agrees to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" question. what is it? as rapporteur, i am well aware that it is good that we in this parliament always speak the truth about political developments in a country. and so i would ask mr belder whether he has perhaps missed the fact that the biggest reforms which have been carried out for the kurds have taken place in recent years? can he beam that?
"blue card" is the answer. i made it clear in my speech: the kurds see it as one step forward and two steps back. and i would also like to point out to you, mr rapporteur, on the basis of the facts that in 2005 the akp was far less nationalistic than a few years later, when it even once again used islamist politics as an instrument in the kurdish question. i have some nice literature for you to read.
blue-card question. – i would like to ask, via mr stadler, if it would be possible for the commission not only to give the english version of the progress report to the turkish government but also to translate it into turkish so that there cannot be any misunderstanding. the english text was ok. it was only the translation that was wrong.
mr president, we are here today because we want to give out a clear signal that we support the process to solve the kurdish issue. we also strongly support turkey’s struggle against terrorism. i believe these two should go hand in hand. what is needed is not a superficial conflict resolution but a wholehearted, sincere transformation of the mentality which has dominated so far, a transformation that will begin with understanding the reasons behind the demands of citizens of turkish-kurdish origin. this should also be the starting point which will lead to the creation of a true democracy in turkey based on the equality of every citizen, not just on paper but in practice and in the hearts of the people. let us not waste time on anything aiming for less. it is of course also very important to support the necessary legislative changes. in this regard it is crucial that the fourth judicial reform package is adopted to improve democracy, freedom of speech and human rights, and this is also valid, of course, for the new constitution. we are ready, as always, to support turkey in achieving a higher level of democracy and human rights.
"blue card" question. what is it? i would also like to ask mr ertug a question, because this is the first time that the 10% threshold has been raised in the debate and i think it is a very important point. my question is: how should this be achieved in practice? can mr ertug say anything more about that?
question for the commissioner: the commission is not i would like to point out to mr ertug that in the last attempt to change the constitution - that was two years ago - it was even the bdp that rejected this 10% hurdle. do you know that?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the need to protect and promote human rights in today’s world is becoming an ever more challenging task. it is essential that the un plays an effective and credible role, especially regarding human rights, and a lot of work needs to be done. after the cowardly assassination of chokri belaid today we are reminded that challenges remain in north africa and the middle east, especially in those countries which witnessed uprisings as the people sought new hope, freedom and opportunity after decades of repression and human rights violations. syria is our highest priority. the violence has to end, full stop. all sides of the conflict must take their responsibility and allow the access of humanitarian aid efforts. we should also work on establishing a un security council resolution to guarantee that the aid reaches people safely. iran is facing a crucial year with elections and a new round of negotiations on the nuclear file. it is the new role of the un human rights council and the eu to ensure that human rights are not forgotten or violated to a greater extent than they are today. the special rapporteur for human rights in iran needs to be able to continue his work, and we jointly need to condemn the arrest of journalists and the violence and executions. on bahrain the european parliament has been among the most vocal in condemning the ongoing human rights violations, and i also support the calls by this house to adopt a resolution on the human rights situation in bahrain during the 22nd session. this would also have to include mechanisms to monitor the implementation of the report of the bahrain independent commission of inquiry (bici). finally, in egypt we risk seeing increased violence as a result of abuse of power, both politically and by police forces, and this is very problematic. we should continue to let the people of egypt know that we support the rule of law, democracy and human rights, that we will hold their new leaders accountable, and that we jointly condemn the death penalty and call for a moratorium on the death penalty, including in the context of the most recent convictions of 21 suspects in the port said massacre.
the european union prides itself on standing up for human rights, wherever they are in the world and without distinction of person. that is a noble and worthy aspiration, and one which we europeans, with the lessons of our past, must indeed express in words and deeds. there are a number of superhuman rights that fall under the so-called ius cogens. the ius cogens is the supreme law from which no one may ever depart. examples of these include the prohibitions on genocide, slavery and torture. it is the duty of everyone in the world to act against it. the human rights we are talking about here are human rights derived from treaties. but treaties have the disadvantage of being political choices. we see this in one of the most important human rights, the right to freedom of expression. there are few countries in the world where that freedom is truly guaranteed. even in the netherlands, he's not always safe. other european governments are also very fond of the right of citizens to express their opinions, not to mention all the rogue states in africa, the middle east, the former soviet union, and indeed all over the world. this should force us to make freedom of expression an absolute priority of the european union's human rights policy. without that right, citizens are unable to challenge authorities and control governments. the safeguard of freedom of expression is ... (the president withdrew the floor).
mr president, first of all this debate is not about cornering bulgaria, or singling out bulgaria. the rule of law and democracy are common european values. if you wanted to concentrate on my country, we also have had attacks: theo van gogh was murdered in my country, pim fortuyn was murdered there. we have looked for international and european cooperation and we have never said the european parliament may not debate this issue. therefore, this is not against bulgaria; it is in the interests of bulgaria. like graham watson, i was in the congress hall and i saw what happened. i also heard and saw that there were no police there, neither in the cultural palace nor outside it, although this was requested. this has to be answered. we also need to know: has international cooperation been brought to the attention of the bulgarians? what did the commission do? and has assistance been requested by bulgaria? international crime and international terrorism know no borders, and in europe we have too many borders. what i would ask is to let us cooperate in this case, let us investigate and let us debate it, not against bulgaria but in the interests of bulgaria. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – the fact is that this should be clarified because what we know – sir graham watson and i – is that the police were asked to come and there was no response. the mrf asked for police protection and it was not given. i am not implying anything, but let us answer the questions. let us raise them here and i would like the authorities in bulgaria to answer.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to thank the irish presidency and the commissioner for explaining what we are going to do for europe and for the climate treaty by 2015. but i would like to stress that time is running out. in 2015 europe needs to be ready with a 2030 package because, if europe is not ready, then who will be? so europe needs to be ready by the end of 2015. 2014 is a european election year with a new parliament and a new commission. so time is running out. i feel that there is a lack of urgency here, on the part of the irish presidency as well, to work and to deliver on a time schedule that will enable us to have a 2030 climate package with three targets ready by 2015. i have another concrete question to the council. as we saw in 2012, one of the big problems always present at the international negotiations is the lack of financing pledges by the eu. we can be annoyed by it, but we do know that all the developing countries will look to europe. what are you going to deliver? what will the irish presidency do to make sure that the eu will have a pledge on the table and that the ministers of finance are included in this debate, because that is the key. it should not only be the ministers of the environment who get the blame in doha, in durban or in warsaw. just a word to my colleagues in conclusion. everyone is always saying in this room how important climate is. well, then show it. show it in saving the emissions trading scheme, and in showing that backloading should be supported.
madam president, if the eu does not speak with one voice we have the influence of 28 dwarves in the land of giants and that is close to zero. but we, europe, become a giant if we climb upon each other’s shoulders and speak with one voice. i think that is the key issue here. let us be honest in our european house of democracy. we cannot blame the commission for this and we cannot blame parliament for this. the core of the problem is the council and maybe especially the hybrid structure of the council and the total lack of transparency. of course the presidency defends the interests of the council as an institution, but it does not talk about the position of individual member states. i think that is where the problem lies. why can we not in parliament invite the polish minister to explain his position on climate change? we do not need a treaty change for that. all we need is political will and more transparency. this week we had the french president mr hollande in this house, not only delivering a speech but also having a debate with us, the members of the european parliament. i would like to ask the presidency in particular: if we as a parliament invite individual ministers, can you please urge them to answer this invitation and to come to our house to listen to our questions and not always hide behind the council as an institution?
i would like to thank you, mr president, and also thank mr heuer for explaining the plans of the investment bank. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mauro, for the good cooperation which has resulted in this report. we have covered just about every subject you can think of in connection with the european investment bank, so in that sense the report is at least comprehensive enough. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups for their cooperation. but i am trying to focus a little more in this story on what i think is crucial for the european investment bank. firstly, the importance of the european investment bank investing in southern europe, in those countries in particular, at a time of crisis. i agree with all the members who say that the aaa rating of the european investment bank is very important, but not if it is at the expense of investment in precisely those countries which need it most. the european investment bank should now ensure that the investments are made in those countries which need them most. these are southern europe and of course central europe, where an incredible transition to a sustainable economy has yet to take place and where help is also needed. these are the priorities which the european investment bank should be choosing now. in this sense, i welcome the pilot project on the europe 2020 bonds, for example. but we need to speed up the process, we need to know if it's working and we need to follow up. this is very important when we look at the future role of the european investment bank in getting out of this crisis. but let me give a more specific example of the energy policy of the european investment bank. we all say in this chamber, and you say it too, mr heuer, that it is extremely important that the european investment bank helps to achieve the eu 2020 objectives. the climate objectives are key to these objectives: 20% less co2 emissions, 20% renewable energy and 20% energy savings. it is therefore incomprehensible that the eib is still granting subsidies to fossil fuel projects at the moment. every fossil project will be there for decades. i don't know if you're up to speed on climate science, but it says very clearly, global emissions must be brought down, and any investment in a fossil fuel project is likely to emit co2 for decades. that is what the eib is still contributing to and that is something that really needs to be phased out. - right now! i hope that mr heuer can explain the eib's policy in this area. but it is also about energy saving, especially in central europe. there's a lot of work to be done to reduce energy waste. the eib could play a very important role in this too. i know that the investment in this is increasing somewhat, but it is still far too little! can mr heuer explain the vision of the european investment bank for investing in renewable energy and energy saving, particularly in southern and central europe, in order to work towards the achievement of the 2020 targets, so that we do not continue to compliment each other on this in vagueness, but that we actually start working on it? a concrete example is the šoštanj project in slovenia, a lignite project. there's been a lot of criticism of that project. there is also a letter from other members of the european parliament, including mr turmes. what is your answer to that? are we going to stop? the eib is creating a problem, not only for the environment, but also for a project that is dubious. mr heuer can say something about that? a question to the commission. the energy policy is currently under review. what will be the commission's commitment to the eib? we have had a consultation, but now the negotiations are taking place. i assume that the commission is also making it very clear that the eib should invest in sustainability and energy saving and no longer in fossil projects. i hope that the commission will give me some more information on the purpose of this review. finally, the very important point of transparency. i would like to ask mr heuer whether the eib is prepared to really start working on a public register of documents now, so that we can ensure that all people have the right to information and access to that information? that is crucial and i would also like to see a little more urgency and a little more speed from the eib in terms of transparency. i hope mr heuer will have something to say about that. (the president agreed to answer a question on a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. it is always strange that when mr goebbels talks about the environment, he feels that it is only the environment. mr goebbels is missing the essential point here, namely that the green economy is the only future economy and that the jobs are there now. the growth of the european economy is in those sectors. it would be nice if mr goebbels knew that environmental policy is economic policy. that still turns out to be a little tricky. but furthermore, if we increase our climate ambitions from 20% to 30%, six million jobs will be created in europe! that is a wonderful thing, and mr goebbels can only support it. six million jobs added, that's fewer unemployed because you have more jobs. finally, you want to achieve the 2020 targets, don't you? the 2020 targets include energy saving, renewable energy. so if you want to achieve those goals, we're going to have to invest in them. unless you want to get rid of it, but then you have to be honest.
the european investment bank has been in existence for over 50 years. during that time, she has provided credit to a multitude of projects. the bank has never been asked to help because of disappointing growth rates in the member states. but in the last few years, it's happened. with the aim of european unification, the bank has been asked to finance many more projects and thus to take greater risks. the capital outstanding is now 395 billion, a sixfold increase in a few years. it's all based on a banking license, so compared to all those investments, there's very little equity. i wonder if the risks involved have been properly weighed. the continuing call for the european union itself to become a shareholder in the bank is the worst of all fears. a political body that hijacks an independent bank to fund its political goals, that can't go well. my group will therefore vote against this report. the european investment bank is not designed to help failing governments out of the fire. if the eurozone is dismantled in a sensible way, the investment in the southern member states, which is now lagging behind, will be restored. the hard decisions must be carried out: a small government, low debt, low taxes. it is also unwise that 10% of the uncovered, almost 400 billion, is invested outside the european union. the contribution to the foreign policy objectives is questionable, not least because the foreign interests of the member states are not identical.
my socialist colleague made a comment on the demonstration yesterday by the workers of arcelor mittal. when i drove back to my hotel yesterday, i was ashamed to find that a great deal of damage had been done to strasbourg municipality property. whatever the reason for a demonstration, one should stay away from the things of another's land!
mr president, i would like to very briefly point out to our colleagues on the right that they have just voted in direct and utter contradiction to the report before this. compare the two and make up your mind.
- a writer. − two elections are scheduled for 2013 in zimbabwe. the long-awaited referendum on the new constitution and the presidential elections. in this presidential election, mugabe and tsvangirai will face off for the third time. we do not yet know exactly when those elections will take place. but it is clear that tensions are already building up and the run-up to elections in zimbabwe is usually very violent. zimrights human rights activists leo chamahwinya and dorcas shereni are still in jail and they are being held on charges of forging forms to register to vote. it's already showing that the harassment has begun. there have been several security raids on mdc offices and if activists and citizens do not dare to register for the elections then the elections will not be fair. the cheating has actually already begun. the international community should actually be present in zimbabwe now to ensure that harassment is seen and, of course, preferably prevented. but how do we do that? the european union has been denied access to zimbabwe for years, and our election monitoring missions are not welcome. we must offer our services to other international organizations and we must of course insist once again on a mission on our part.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, i would first like to congratulate mrs viviane reding, vice-president of the european commission, not only for her presence but also for the constant attention she pays in her work to the problems of equality between men and women. you will understand, mr president, that i am particularly angry that no member of the council has deigned to come to this debate in this house. you have said very well just now, mr president, that this is a matter of a violation of dignity, a matter of a violation of human rights, a matter of zero tolerance also - you said it - for violence, but also for wages, for the careers of women, for discrimination in employment and all the areas where the crisis has a very negative impact on the situation of women. i hope the council will hear the conclusions of our own-initiative report. i would like to thank mr gustafsson, chairman of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, and all the fictitious rapporteurs for the work they have done. this work goes far beyond the agreed political positions of any particular group. we have been well aware that this problem of equality of citizens is a constitutive value of the european construction. this is a fundamental value of the social europe we are working towards, and therefore no one can turn their back on it. we have thus worked to build a consensus that transcends all political divisions. that is why the debate on 'austerity policy and growth policy' is very much out of date when we are dealing with this subject. we must build together an equal pay system for recruitment and an equal standard of selection. we can see that today there is a real inequality in wages. in equal positions and with equal competences, there are 17% fewer women, but in addition - and you know this very well, madam commissioner - with each new child born, this inequality grows. the last oecd report on the issue emphasized that it was always 12 percent less wages for women, for every child born. a career issue is therefore added to the salary issue. the flat career of women means that, at the end of working life, women earn about 30% less than men. this leads to a real political, economic and social problem in all the member states, since we have a real impoverishment of women. finally, the precarious nature of the contracts on which women are employed, together with the low wages, means that the crisis is now leading to a silent withdrawal of women from the world of work. this is totally unacceptable in the europe we want. this is why the report advocates common criteria for steering, at the level of the european commission and at the level of the member states. we want to see the situation of widening social inequality between men and women stopped today, through corrective policies, and particularly through the european social fund, and to see an end to this increase in the crisis we are experiencing.
- i'm the reporter. - to make the door open immediately, i quote the headlines in the netherlands and other countries: "a repugnant proposal from liotard". why do people get so worked up? because they think i'm trying to ban porn with this proposal. firstly, i can assure you that the report is not intended to impose any obligations or prohibitions, and secondly, it is the result of a process in the committee on gender equality. all my colleagues with a little common sense know all too well that this is not a legislative proposal, and that the purpose of such a report is primarily to draw attention to a problem and to advise and ask the commission to take this into account in future policy. the real issue is that stereotyping still contributes to the fact that: 1) there is a gender pay gap in the same occupation of an average of 16.4% in the eu; 2) that in the netherlands, for example, women earn on average 20% less than men because of the phenomenon that typical women's occupations are paid less than typical men's occupations; 3) that as a result, women are much more likely to fall into poverty later in life. older women are particularly the victims of the wage gap, with disastrous consequences for their pensions. they are more likely to end up in extreme poverty. 4) that it is a fact that one in four women still experiences physical, psychological or sexual violence in her lifetime; 5) that trafficking in women still exists; 6) that in decision-making bodies such as politics, the commission and the ecb, in the management of large and small companies and organisations, the majority is still male. let us not forget that it is not only women who suffer from stereotyping, but also stereotypes based on age, migration status, sexual orientation and disability are still a major problem in the eu. it is also a fact that stereotyping and stereotyping of men and women begins in childhood. the media, but also educational role models, policy makers and parents themselves can help to reduce negative stereotyping, of course with all respect for freedom of expression and media freedom. i therefore urge these people in particular in my report to be aware of the existence of stereotyping in the future and to stop setting and encouraging stereotyping. this can be done, for example, by avoiding the objectification of women, for women are more than that. or by really letting children choose a profession they want to pursue later, without labeling certain professions as either women's or men's. or not always portraying women as taking care of household chores, but also showing that men can do that very well. furthermore, by providing key players and people working in sectors that can influence image formation with tools that help them to cope with the phenomenon of stereotyping, to recognise it and thus to avoid it. these are the points on which the report is based. it is not that i want the report to be adopted because i am the rapporteur. the point is that it is a message that a majority of the committee on gender equality voted for and a message that is important for the future where men and women do not have to be the same but are equal. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
"blue card" is the answer. - i have used all kinds of data, from this institution but also from all kinds of other statistics that exist. they're all in the report. i hope that this has answered your question and that i have understood it correctly. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
"blue card" is the answer. - yes, i certainly think it is important that support for such programmes is given in the european union, but it must also be given in the member states. for example, one of the points in my report is also an encouragement from the commission: "start with yourself". ask the member states, the next time a new commission is elected, to nominate both a man and a woman - because the commission is still predominantly made up of men - so that the most suitable one can be chosen. i am sure that after that, 50 per cent of the commission will be women.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. i too always get a little nauseous when i see the countless laundry detergent commercials in which a housewife is thrilled to be able to wash the stains off her children's clothes. as a mother of two children, i can testify that that is not a very realistic picture. i have no doubt that the liotard report will be adopted, for three reasons. firstly, because i doubt that the eu has a role to play. this report is completely outside the eu's competence, and perhaps that is a good thing. it is much more powerful when women en masse use new and old media to protest themselves against the one-sided images that exist of them. the second reason is that the report could be misused as a plea against pornography. and that's kind of what happened. the report goes too far in its adulation and its moral chivalry, and we shall therefore vote against those paragraphs. thirdly, i believe that the report should be about increasing choice. but the passages on freedom of the press and media actually restrict people's choices, instead of increasing them. thank you, sir.
president. - many women in north africa hoped that the uprisings would mark the beginning of an improvement in their situation. nothing could be further from the truth. during the north african uprising, female protesters have been subjected to sexual harassment on a regular basis. in egypt, this affects as many as 80 percent of all women. article 2 of the new egyptian constitution reads: islam is the state religion, the principles of sharia are the source of legislation. and we know what the sharia law says: gender inequality, violence against women. the sharia even legitimizes the stoning of women. in other words, women in egypt are worse off than before. furthermore, women's participation in politics has not improved at all, according to figures from the united nations. in fact, the tunisian parliament has two fewer women deputies after the elections, and in egypt the percentage of women fell from 12 to 2 percent. the reality, mr president, is that the islamists have come to power. and we all know: in islam, women are inferior to men. in islam, oppression and violence against women are commonplace. where islam is the rule, women are in a bad way. that's the sad truth. thank you, sir.
mr president, the women of north africa took the lead during the arab spring. they were in the forefront, demanding democracy, social justice, freedom and equality. today, women have become the forgotten group of the arab spring. their current struggle is about not losing the rights they had under the dictatorships. ironic and sad, but true. the eu’s contribution is crucial for the setting up of a truly democratic political culture involving gender equality. this requires us to take a coordinated and comprehensive approach. we must make it clear that aid is conditional on progress in democratisation and the improvement of women’s rights. in the meantime we must support the development of civil society. we do not have unlimited time to take action. if the constitutional process is completed without gender equality being effectively safeguarded, the tools we have at our disposal will not help.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, please allow me to thank the overwhelming majority of this house who have, across party lines, taken the same approach. the fact that women do not have an equal position in the economy, in politics or in society is a great shame, as i think we all agree. at this time, when the crisis and the problems which many families are facing is at the top of the agenda, i would like nevertheless to underline that promoting gender equality is good for growth. all our studies have shown this. a company which promotes equal pay will attract female talent. that is an efficient business model. a company which attracts female talent in top management has better financial results, as has been shown by all the studies. these better financial results then help to create jobs. the proposal before you for ‘women on board’ is also about unlocking talent: the 60% of university graduates who are female and whom we are leaving idle. can we afford that? no, we cannot. that is why i would advise some of the members of this house to read what the commission has put on the table. it is about qualification and talent and the fact that the best candidate should be selected even if she is a woman, which is not happening today. there is a lot of untapped potential in our economy. one thing is very clear, and has been said by many in this house. the crisis is having an impact on both men and women, and is having a greater impact on women than on men. before the crisis women were catching up. the employment rate went up from 55% in 1997 to 62% in 2007, a 7% increase in ten years. the crisis has halted this trend. that is precisely why in the 2012 european semester – and this will be repeated in 2013, but i can only speak to you about what has already happened – nine member states received a country-specific recommendation about affordable care services and about ensuring the fiscal treatment of second earners allows women to continue to work and does not prohibit them from continuing to work. the majority of these recommendations concern the provision of adequate and affordable care services; a second group concerns improving the fiscal treatment of women, in particular, and a third group addresses the question of tackling the gender pay gap. i should like to read you one sentence from the integrated guidelines for economic and employment policies. guideline 7 states: ‘work-life balance policies with the provision of affordable care and innovation in work organisation should be geared to raising employment rates, particularly among youth, older workers and women, in particular to retain highly-skilled women in scientific and technical fields’. as you see, we have included everything that you have called for in our legal basis. the question is how much it is implemented in member states. as you know, we are monitoring the member states’ implementation of this. many specific questions have been raised, and it would take too long to answer all of them in this house. however, there was a very precise question on the recast directive, that is the directive on equality in the labour market and on the pay gap. this directive contains provisions on equal pay as well as provisions on sanctions. member states can provide for sanctions in cases where equal pay rules are infringed. the commission is monitoring the implementation of these provisions and will report on the implementation of the recast directive early this summer. i would like to underline once more some of the figures which mrs morin has put before us, because they are very important. one of them is particularly shocking: women’s average income goes down by 12% with the birth of each child. children should be a source of life and wealth, not a source of poverty. unfortunately, the present situation will result in age-related poverty for women. that will be a tremendous problem for the next generation if we do not do our homework today. when i say ‘we’ i mean the 27 member states. this is something which worries me a great deal. the direct link between bringing up the next generation and suffering poverty in old age is a very shocking development in our society. some members have called for us to promote gender balance in politics. the eu has competence as regards gender equality in employment and in social matters, which is firmly established by article 157 of the treaty. it does not have competence as regards the political and constitutional systems of the member states. however, the european parliament, the elected members and the political parties do, so let us all direct our efforts to where the capacity to change the situation exists. let us ensure that, for the next european elections, these deficits are eliminated. i would also like to reply to one of the points made by reaffirming that human rights are universal and equality is a human right. this issue is high on the agenda of my colleagues mr füle and baroness ashton, who deal respectively with neighbourhood policy and external action, and they always draw the attention of the governments concerned to its importance. finally, i would just like to say a word of appreciation for the rapporteurs – mrs morin-chartier, mrs liotard and mrs costa. their proposals on the labour market, on the economy, on stereotypes and on women in other parts of the world will be the basis of our future work. i would like to thank them very much for the very important work they have brought before us. et vous avez bien mérité des femmes.
i'm the reporter. - mr president, commissioner, i thank you for what you have just said. i would draw five lessons from this afternoon's debate. the first is that the crisis is a great weakening factor for the situation of women today, and i would not like us to imagine that women's rights are constantly advancing. no, history has shown us that there have been periods of sad setbacks and i believe that today we are in a period where we cannot allow this fragility to develop. as for the second lesson, no, the women's workforce is not a supporting workforce. no, women are not an adjustment variable in our society. i therefore thank you, commissioner, for speaking as you did, because we must all work together to ensure that women's right to work is respected, which goes hand in hand with their right to independence. the third lesson is that families and states are investing heavily in girls' education. today, girls are educated as much as boys, if not more. what is scandalous is that the governments do not make efforts to integrate these girls, on an equal footing with boys, into the world of work. the fourth lesson is that all levels must be involved: the public and private sectors, the european level - as we have seen - but also the national levels, which must be stimulated in this area, and finally the local levels, because we know that local implementation must also be encouraged. there are the sayings and there are the facts. we see that, despite all that we say, we have to give a boost to our desire to see these objectives materialize at national level. i'd like to end with my fifth lesson, because it's extremely important. i call on everyone to vote, because what is important is that our vote tomorrow should be a lesson to the council, which is not here today. (applause) i would like to thank
- i'm the reporter. - i would like to thank all my colleagues very warmly for their contribution to this debate and to the report. i would also like to thank mrs reding very warmly for her commitment to work on this in the commission. i would like to say very briefly that those who like to watch porn - and there are quite a few of them, as the hundreds of e-mails i have received in my mailbox testify - can be really reassured. we cannot ban something by means of a non-legislative report. it is therefore absurd that some members of this house should vote against the report for that reason. one of my colleagues made it very clear that we often don't even recognize stereotyping because the stereotypes are so ingrained. and she 's right . girls should be nice girls and boys should be tough guys. then there was another colleague, mrs cornelissen, who felt that debating and agreeing on gender stereotyping was not the eu's place. i think that when we talk about women's rights and gender stereotyping, women everywhere must be in solidarity with each other and we must think about the consequences of stereotyping at all levels, both regional and national, european and international. only then can we win the battle against gender stereotyping. and it starts here in the european parliament by showing solidarity tomorrow and showing that we are against gender stereotyping.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i should like to begin by thanking you. i thank the shadow rapporteurs, the commission and also the cypriot presidency for concluding this deal at first reading. it would not have been possible if not for the efforts of everyone involved. the report i was rapporteur for is very important for the reporting obligations of all member states in the eu on the amount they emit and what that looks like exactly. it is important to ensure that everyone uses the same uniform, transparent rules for the recording of greenhouse gas emissions. what is also important, particularly in the longer term, is that member states should now also start to present the plans for the longer-term transition of their economies to an economy which emits 80 to 95% less greenhouse gases. that transition sounds far away, we're talking about 2050. but the changes will have to happen tomorrow and the day after tomorrow to achieve that in 2050. and these reporting obligations ensure that member states show how they are aligning their measures. another important subject in this dossier was shipping. it was found to be unacceptable for the member states to talk about this at the moment. we now have a commitment from the commission that it will come forward very soon with proposals on how we are going to record international shipping in our reports. i'm looking forward to those proposals. and at least we have a clear commitment to that. the main issue, or at least the one which received the most attention during the negotiations, was the reporting obligations on finances. i would like to point out in particular two member states which have been incredibly difficult in these negotiations, while they always make a lot of good use of their green exterior. it is the united kingdom, but it is also germany. the council is quite clear on this point, and even the reporting obligation on: "how much money do we give to climate aid", even that reporting requirement was a big, big problem for member states like the uk and germany. so every time they make a nice display of how green they want the economy to be, but as soon as it becomes concrete and it's about 'how much aid we give to developing countries', then it's particularly the uk and germany that are going to be very upset, just because they don't want the eu to do anything about finance. let me be very clear. this report is not at all about the powers of member states moving towards europe or about finances. all that is asked here is: "report how much money you give to developing countries each year". and everyone who goes to the international climate talks knows how important this is for developing countries. what is the eu doing to help the climate? every year, it's a big fight. and every year the eu, being the eu, cannot make clear how much money we give. each member state wants to be clear about how much money they give. like the last time in doha: sweden gave a little, denmark, germany, france, the uk. but we couldn't add up, because everyone uses different rules and different calculation methods, and so we couldn't clearly show as the eu how much money we give to developing countries. and that is a problem for international negotiations every year. fortunately, this report will put an end to this, but it took an incredible amount of effort to get germany and the united kingdom to take that step. i would therefore like to say to those member states: 'yes, what you do at home to make it greener is important, but also make sure that the eu as an eu can make big steps, internationally. this report was all about reporting those steps. if that is difficult, we still have a long way to go, and that is unfortunately the conclusion of this report. we're taking another step forward, we've made some gains again, but we still have a long way to go on the road to that true green economy. the reporting obligations are now in place. now for the real action.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, i think we can conclude the debate by stating clearly that we are taking another 'small step', as commissioner hedegaard says, towards monitoring obligations, towards action on land use. it's just small steps. but i would also like to conclude by saying that whenever we talk about climate, again, again in this house, people say: "slow down, we have to slow down, step by step". and yet it amazes me again and again how we in the european parliament constantly look with fear at climate policy. europe has few areas in which we are leading the world and will continue to be leading in the future. we are an aging continent. we are dependent on imports because we have very few resources of our own. our economy will grow less rapidly than in countries like china or brazil. and our labor costs are always high. these are also the main reasons for the high price of electricity. so anyone who thinks we should sit back and relax out of fear of the rest of the world is doing himself a disservice. our greatest competitive strength is innovation. innovation to a clean economy. research shows over and over again that if we were to increase our climate ambitions beyond 2020 from 20 percent now to 30 percent, that would create six million additional jobs. that is the task we have as europe. innovation is what creates jobs and that is the strength of europe. not by sitting back. again, with these steps we have made very small steps, but innovation and the innovation agenda of europe, we should be pursuing that a little more as the european parliament instead of constantly looking back anxiously to the future.
mr president, in the netherlands we have recently had a new saying: "selling horses for cattle". it is incredible, but the consumer today cannot trust what meat is actually in the store. the huge profits go to the meat producers who sell horse meat as beef. it's wrong. but it's getting worse. the european food safety authority, the flagship agency that should have been at the forefront of this scandal, did not. it was thanks to the national food and commodity authorities that the scandal became fully known. it was the national member states that dealt with it directly. the conclusion may be clear. as the pvv has been arguing for years, the needless efsa, which cannot yet tell a horse from a cow, must be abolished as soon as possible. let us especially cherish the national selection bodies. at least the consumer will know what kind of meat he or she has in the bin. after all, you're a cow when you're doing food safety stunts.
in writing. - of course the pvv stands for full gender equality and women's rights. however, the pvv voted against the report by rapporteur morin-chartier; the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment, but it is not yet ready to take action on the basis of the results of the european council in copenhagen. national member states are best placed to take care of women's rights. this should be organised at national level, close to the citizen. that is why the pvv voted against this european proposal.
mr president, it has just been said that the committee on agriculture, with 53 meetings, has been discussing this reform of the agricultural policy for a very long time, and that is true. but if there are hundreds of amendments to that compromise, the big question is whether the committee on agriculture has succeeded in finding a proper compromise. the answer is very clear: no, you won't! the committee on agriculture has not succeeded in doing so. the result of the committee on agriculture is not representative. that is why we are having this debate in plenary and why we must vote in plenary tomorrow on these amendments, so that the general interest, the representative interest of the european citizen, is heard, also in this chamber. that's going to have to be voted on. and it's really simple. are the offers fair? - no, please! if you look at developing countries: there are still export subsidies possible. the committee on agriculture is still opposed to our carrying out an impact assessment on the impact of this european policy on developing countries. is it green? - no, please! the 30% greening is non-binding! the cross compliance process does not take into account all kinds of issues such as the water framework directive, such as the sustainable use of pesticides: they're not included in the greening. these are very important measures which we must discuss in this house and which we must correct. we were critical of the committee's proposal. that was a compromise. but the weaknesses that this parliament wants to introduce, we must fight against them, tomorrow in the plenary, with fair votes.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we want green growth, farmers must have room to manoeuvre. unfortunately, the proposals put forward by the european commission have been a litmus test. the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for what! greening through a certificate offers opportunities in my view: think of precision farming. i'm thinking about grazing too. this is another public service that is highly valued by the public. the committee on agriculture wants a clear distinction between the basic payment and the greening premium. farmers have indeed benefited from this clarity. finally, there is a lot of entrepreneurial and innovative power in the agricultural sector. the policies we are making here should not be burdensome, but should facilitate and stimulate green growth. let us bear that in mind when we vote tomorrow afternoon.
president. - i am sorry, mr president, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture, fisheries and rural development. it is the farmers in europe who provide us with our daily bread. and by 2050, they'll have nine billion mouths to feed worldwide. this requires an effort by the european union, but also greater productivity in developing countries. that's been said. farmers do this 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and for a wage that would also be below the minimum wage in most member states. and then my colleague sinclaire shouts: "i want cheap food!" well, with her the supermarkets, who time and time again force farmers to accept an even lower price, while everyone knows that everything falls or stands with a fair price for a fair product. i hear other colleagues talking about green and sustainable. and they find me by their side. but farmers rely on their results when it comes to sustainability. and give them the space to choose the sustainability path that actually fits their business. so not a harness of impossible demands, but sustainability that fits into your business. mr president, i do not want to look back thirty years from now and conclude that we have today in the european parliament chosen either the totally liberal line or the totally stalinist line, neither of which is good for our agriculture. because then we will have to realize that we are no longer producing our own food and that we have to import it from the other side of the world. no one's getting anywhere with that! i would like to thank the many farmers, including the young farmers, whom i have met in recent years, who have devoted themselves to this profession with great love, great knowledge and great dedication, 24 hours a day, and you can hammer whatever you want, i would like to say this for us. let us thank them on our knees for being willing to do this.
mr president, as things stand, direct income support for dutch farmers is falling by more than 15%. i find that really unheard of. after all, we are talking about the most innovative and productive farmers in europe. i would say: "reward the innovative farmer. provide an incentive to invest in sustainability and animal welfare, for example, with sustainable stalls, with grazing, with precision farming.' this will enable dutch farmers to continue doing what they are good at, namely innovating and producing. other member states are also seeing their budgets shrink, but they are still being compensated by extra money from rural policy, such as italy and france. but for the dutch farmers there is no extra money in the pot, unfortunately. in addition, mr president, the three compulsory greening measures proposed by the commissioner will not bring any results in the netherlands and will cause a great deal of administrative burden. i therefore call on our negotiators in the trialogue to come to a broader interpretation of the greening measures than we have now.
i would also like to say a few words about the income supplements. there's a tendency everywhere to say, "they must be equalised as much as possible throughout europe, because that is a matter of justice". i don't agree with that. it is a compensation to the farmers for the efforts they make, which go beyond what the world market requires. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. it's a payment for services rendered. the price of land in the netherlands is at least eur 50 000 per hectare. a price of land in eastern europe or elsewhere in europe is not nearly as high. so if there's a fee to be paid, i think it should be related to the customer's price. and that automatically means that in certain countries the income supplements will always have to be higher than in countries where agriculture is less intensive. so equalization, if it's fair, is good, but in this case, it doesn't seem to me to be the right key to the distribution.
president, on 8 february the council adopted the multiannual budget 2014-2020. this week parliament will decide whether it can live with that smaller budget. however, this means that the 2014 budget cannot yet be formally adopted. but not sad, they thought. then we'll just do it ourselves. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what the conclave of eu cardinals does not want to understand is that the citizens of europe have had enough of all this cacophony behind closed doors with the appropriate baked air. we do not want to spend another penny on this nonsensical eu policy, but be-zúi-ní-gén. mr. speaker, as jeremy clarkson on top gear always says, "you have to be careful what you say". "how hard can it be?" i'll say it again, in full: 'no more but less eu'.
i too would like to limit myself to the agreement on the multiannual budget and i too believe that the agreement in its present form is unacceptable. what's the situation? the commission is now pressing member states to have a balanced budget more and more. first the three per cent rule and then a budget that is balanced. with this agreement the member states force the commission to have a budget which is always in deficit. that does not seem acceptable to me. it is not in accordance with the treaty either. so, for this problem, we have to find a solution. i agree with many that the budget should be flexible. more flexibility between chapters, and also the possibility that the money left over at the end of the year does not have to be automatically returned to the member states, but should be part of the budgetary discussions for the following year. i think that, given the liquidity position in which europe is, it is also clear that the current system of own resources is not working. we must have more own resources for europe, as the treaty also requires. every year, for the last 18 years, the european court of auditors has given a negative assessment of the way the commission manages the money. eighty per cent of that money is spent by the member states. these have to take on a lot more responsibility there. we think that the member state declaration, which is issued every year, should be introduced and that someone in a member state should take political responsibility for the proper spending of money. finally, i too believe that a midterm review is needed. we can't commit to seven years. the newly elected parliament must have a chance to speak again on the budget which we hope to agree soon.
the council will be discussing for the umpteenth time the question of growth and jobs in europe, or rather the lack of them. president schulz has already made a fortune by advocating to tackle youth unemployment through more investment. because, as president schulz says, we are world champions in cutting back, but we have fewer ideas when it comes to stimulating growth. the european union is not going to be targeted when it comes to cutting back, because it has never cut back. the eu prefers to leave savings to the member states. the dutch economy is currently being slashed to the bone by the euro crisis and the three per cent standard set by brussels. so all this sounds great about investing, but where is the money supposed to come from? i do have a suggestion. let's cut the eu budget to the bone. first of all, by abolishing the cohesion policy and those terrible agricultural subsidies. that's over seven hundred billion euros in one fell swoop. the less money is wasted from the eu budget, the more member states have left over, and the less they have to cut back. instead, the netherlands can use its money well to invest in its own country.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, egypt is on the brink of economic, political and social instability. this should trouble us and should make us take decisive action. for two and a half years now we have heard that the eu will proceed according to the ‘more for more’ principle. more reforms towards human rights, democracy, rights for minorities and women will be rewarded with more market access and more support. we made the promise to the people of egypt – and throughout the region – that we would replace our interest-driven politics and policies with a values-based partnership. it is my intention to keep you to that promise. but what do we do? i would like to hear from you why you did not respond to morsi’s power grab last november? that was the litmus test. do you have a clear plan for how the ‘more for more’ principle will play out in practice? this parliament looks forward to receiving it. where are the pledged funds and how strong is conditionality? can you also explain why you did not call on the egyptian authorities to abolish the death penalty when no less than 21 people were sentenced to death? you have seen the demonstrations and the chaos. we may not have been able to prevent that, but we should have made it clear where we stand. these sentences are now confirmed. high representative ashton, i call on you to step up your public support for the rights and freedoms of the egyptian people. we should support the egyptian protest against laws that would seriously limit civil society in doing its work. i call on you to make it clear to the egyptian government that it will not receive any direct funding until significant progress is made towards respect for human rights, the rule of law, democracy, and minority and women’s rights. let me clarify that it is not merely an issue of stopping the harassments, but also about making sure that laws will not be turned against women for a very long time. i believe we will lose the egyptians and our credibility alike if we do not practice what we preach. (applause)
i was present when you made an agreement with the egyptian government in cairo last november on intensive cooperation between europe and egypt for the reconstruction of egypt. because who dared to invest in a country where the state of emergency is in force and who still goes there on holiday? the economy is practically flat. and of course europe should help a neighbour, especially a neighbour who has been wrestling with dictatorship. however, it is very worrying to see that our delegation was barely gone, or that president morsi gave himself extra powers. the fact that those powers have largely been reversed does not lessen my concern. the announced law on ngo funding is a signal that the morsi government is trying to control civil society. zimbabwe has a similar law, and that country is not the good example. and then this weekend, the reaffirmation of the death penalty for 21 civilians. that, too, is making us incredibly worried. i have previously suggested that president morsi be received here in this parliament. i still think that's a good idea. he also said that he wanted to do that when we met in november. i'd like to ask him some direct questions. he should be accountable first and foremost to his own people, but this parliament also wants to know how he intends to organise real democracy in egypt. but since he's not here, i'm going to ask you a question, mrs. ashton. the point is: the five billion in loans and funds and investments which you promised in november and which mr van rompuy confirmed, i do not think a penny of that has gone from here to egypt. - is that right? - yeah. and is that because egypt cannot meet our conditions? i would like to help that country economically and socially, but can it do so now under the circumstances?
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). obama has pledged one billion dollars to egypt since mubarak left. that's one difference. another difference is the way the united states and europe operated. the united states has clearly and publicly stated from the outset that it will attach a set of conditions to this one billion dollars. for example, one of the conditions was that egypt had to comply with the imf programme. so you can expect, mr president, that europe, which is making available a huge sum - much more than the usa - would also make much more and clearer conditions. more so given the situation in egypt. because what do we see in egypt? the christians are not safe there. the constitution is not working. we have just seen on state television that president morsi is complicit in the destruction of the state of israel. and besides, egypt is very high on the list of corrupt nations in the world, so you can expect a lot of control over how that money is spent. i did not hear mr van rompuy mention that during his visit to cairo. that is why my appeal to the high representative is: "tell me again exactly what the terms are". and i think that these should concern human rights, religious freedom, relations with israel, the fight against corruption and a thorough control of spending.
president. - the association of coptic victims of abduction and forced disappearance reports that hardly a day goes by without a coptic girl disappearing somewhere in egypt. the same organization accuses the egyptian ministry of interior, as well as local police officers of direct complicity in these enforced disappearances, respectively abductions of often very young girls. they're 13, 14, so they're still teenagers! the situation is reportedly so dramatic that coptic parents, especially in alexandria and the surrounding area, no longer dare to send their daughters to school. salafi sheikhs are said to be the masterminds behind the kidnappings and forced islamizations of egyptian christian women. madam high representative, in view of the seriousness of the allegations, i ask you whether your service has identical information and, if not, to have these complaints seriously investigated by the european diplomatic service for their veracity. in that case, i look forward to your prompt feedback.
mr president, the point is clear: egypt is slipping further and further. christians are being oppressed and thousands are fleeing the country. youtube was almost banned, sharia law is the basis of the constitution, and criticism of islam is forbidden. more and more women are being abused, the number of blasphemy cases is increasing and so on. this shows how naive and premature it was to speak of an arab spring. instead, we are witnessing an islamic winter, just as predicted. and what is the european union doing? he's pledging five billion to this terrible regime. what should the european citizen think? there are cuts across europe, but the eu has money left over for a dictatorial regime in egypt. the eu thinks democracy is for sale. but less than a week after the eu-egypt task force visited, morsi issued his decree, which would put him above the law. don't be naive, democracy is not for sale! muslim brother morsi just continues to push his sharia agenda. the promise of five billion is ridiculous and must be withdrawn. and if you really want to do the right thing, you should sever diplomatic relations with egypt now.
mrs ashton, ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing a major change in the situation in egypt. we see an increasing pressure on the christians. we are seeing increasing pressure on women's rights and freedoms, their position becoming impossible. all fundamental rights and freedoms are effectively being leveled. there is no longer an independent and impartial judiciary. the high commissioner himself has said that there is too much violence and that there is also the death penalty. mrs ashton is asking parliament to release 500 million of that 5 billion and to support the rest of the commitments. but if i understand correctly, mr president, 'more for more' can also mean that if you do not keep your promises, you will be 'less for less'. the question now is how you, mrs ashton, will do that with your colleagues in the council.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. they warn of an imminent regional catastrophe. the key words are the long-standing internal islamic dichotomy between sunnis and shiites, and cross-border jihadism. in the meantime, international media are reporting that european countries such as france and britain are training syrian militias on jordanian territory, and at the same time croatian newspapers are reporting that large quantities of weapons have been sent to syrian militias from zagreb airport for months. madam high representative, are these media reports based on fact? and if so, how does this involvement of member states and a future member state relate to european policy towards the hotbed of syria? i do not need to say that i find the humanitarian situation very dramatic. the most shocking thing i've seen recently was a syrian christian woman, i think in her 30s or 40s, who had a cross literally driven into her mouth. the sooner this terrible catastrophe is ended, the better. let us make a real effort to reach a political agreement, but that cannot go hand in hand with military intervention.
mr president, i hope that mrs ashton can answer my question, because what i saw yesterday is that you had an external affairs council meeting and you spoke with russia on a constructive dialogue or engagement. did you also speak on the syrian question and on the delivery of arms and on the un security council? that is more important for me than only having constructive engagement about syria. secondly, you did not answer what we already asked for in parliament in our resolution, which is safe havens for all the people who are now on the move in syria. three million citizens there are no longer living in their own houses. thirdly, the delivery of non-lethal weapons: france, the uk and the united states all promised this, but is there anything already done? those would be my questions to mrs ashton.
mr president, let me start by offering my condolences on the death of ahmad shihadeh, a policy officer at the eu representation in damascus. sadly the days when the deaths of individuals in syria make european news are rare. even as people are murdered by tens of thousands, we are still searching for solutions. while millions are on the run and countless are wounded and missing, what is the value of a human life? commissioner georgieva wrote today that we need a political solution, yet many, including european citizens, are taking up arms and joining extremist networks that take the space that is left by the international community. the people in syria are increasingly crushed between the murderous regime and violent extremists. today, opposition members even took to the streets to demonstrate against al-nusra. it is a huge mistake to pretend that all opposition consists of extremists. we as the european union must get aid to the people and take the initiative for a un mandate enabling direct cross-border operations from turkey, jordan and lebanon. let us get more deeply involved in what happens in the refugee camps, so women do not continue to be abused and extremists cannot infiltrate. we need a strategy for the day after assad – in a country full of weapons, with deep wounds, where there is such a desire for revenge in an ethnically-mixed society. concretely, the eu should also take in more syrian refugees itself. we need to put hezbollah on the eu’s terror list and we must do more to push russia and others blocking a real political solution to finally take a stance and stop the killing of innocent civilians in syria.
- i'm the reporter. - president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new chinese party leader, xi jinping, says he dreams of a strong china, 'a harmonious, socialist, modern country, on the road to the great rebirth of the chinese nation'. i do not know to what extent the european institutions are part of his dreams, but if that is the case, i would like to make one thing clear first. it concerns recital v of the report. in the drafting of my report, parliament's services have wrongly suggested that the european parliament is embracing beijing's 'one china' policy. this point will be corrected after my report has been accepted. i'll come back to the dreams of xi jinping. as a sober dutchman, i don't have much of a political dream. they have caused too much misery in china and on our continent. but it is true that my report was intended to contribute to the successful partnership between the eu and china. one of the key elements of such a successful partnership is the obligation of mutual responsibility. beijing can expect from us - and i am thinking of the european council - a clear, consistent and unanimous policy. we also call for a responsible policy on the part of china towards its neighbours. neither china nor europe benefits from escalation in the south and east china seas. but this is not the only point i wanted to make in my report. it is my task as rapporteur to give voice to the dreams of chinese citizens. i believe that it is not enough for the eu to focus exclusively on stability and trade. i have to think about the dream of chinese citizens about free speech. in china, whistleblowers are still dealt with extremely harshly. for example, there was a recent tweet that called on local authorities to swim across a heavily polluted river so they could experience firsthand how bad the situation was because of a nearby factory. i'm thinking of the dream of the chinese best-selling author yu hua. he dreams of a china where food inspectors are as strict as film censors and where film censors are as lax as food inspectors. "because", he said, "you have freedom of speech and food security all at once". i also think of a chinese mother's dream of a baby she was expecting. we must not remain silent as the ruthless scourge of the one-child policy destroys the dream of this woman, the child in her womb. i think - to give one last example - of the dream of visitors to the many house churches in china to come together freely and unhindered without interference from the chinese authorities. i therefore urge all the european institutions to remind the chinese authorities, in line with the report we are discussing tonight, that the dream of xi jinping can only be realised if a bridge is built to the dreams, the many dreams of chinese citizens.
i would like to congratulate mr kasoulides on his election victory in cyprus and on his appointment as foreign minister for the second time. i should also like to thank mr kasoulides for all the work he has done on this report. and he did that with my colleague bas belder. i spoke to him yesterday and he also asked me very explicitly not only to take over the report but also to thank you, mr belder, for your efforts. i would like to make three comments. first, in the eu's relations with china, we pursue mutual interests. it is therefore wise to base eu-china strategic cooperation on areas of common interest that we can both find. we are concerned that this is china's 12th five year plan and we are concerned that it is the europe 2020 strategy. if we do that, we can at least deepen the cooperation with china, which is very broad at the moment. a second point. we will continue to encourage china, in the context of political dialogue and on an equal footing, to make the transition to an open society. an open society based on a well-functioning, independent rule of law and respect for human rights. and i would therefore like to stress in particular the need to involve the tibetan and uyghur populations in a politically responsible but also meaningful way in governance issues, in order to create lasting stability in that great country, which cannot be achieved through forced assimilation, cultural destruction or oppression. we are concerned about the increase in self-immolation in tibet. my third point is that the chinese government should be called upon to stop all its policies which restrict the fundamental rights of citizens. there are still a number of things wrong with freedom of religion and belief, the right to freedom of expression, freedom of association and assembly and freedom of the press. we are concerned, mr president, about the increase in surveillance and also censorship on the internet. and china, in that respect, is one of the most closed countries in the world. fourthly, we support the eu's 'one china' policy and welcome the contacts and improved relations between china and taiwan. president. - i call on china, as the world's second largest economy and an increasingly important political power, to make responsible use of its global position.
member of the commission. − mr president, allow me indeed to offer my congratulations to mr belder on his work, which has led to such an inspiring debate. in closing, i want to reiterate my gratitude to the european parliament for its support for high representative ashton’s work and the focus that members have given to the european union-china strategic dialogue in the report and discussion today. the european union will use the opportunity of engagement with the new chinese leadership this year, not least at the 16th european union-china summit, to map out the further course of the relationship over the coming years. this report gives us the european parliament’s perspective on what is important for it. high representative ashton expects shortly to travel to china for her first encounter with the new chinese leadership. there we will lay the foundation for the next european union-china strategic dialogue, which is due to take place in brussels this year. the european external action service will continue to keep the european parliament – in particular its delegation for relations with the people’s republic of china and its subcommittee on human rights – regularly informed about all developments in european union-china relations.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, first of all i want to make one thing clear. in the debate here tonight, many colleagues - and i can understand that - have raised the trade aspect, the trade relationship between the european union and china. i am also very convinced of the importance of this and have read a great deal of literature on this subject, but at the express request of the committee on international trade this element was not allowed to be included in this report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources available for the period 2005-2006 are used to finance the necessary measures. so, ladies and gentlemen, i am sure that this is very important, but it is up to the committee on international trade. that was a high-level parliamentary meeting, which i have stayed out of. i followed through. thanks to the good cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups. i would also like to thank the european union delegation in beijing. i should like to thank both the council and the commission for the extremely stimulating cooperation we have had in talks here in brussels, but also, and especially, in talks in beijing twice last year. what has this report taught me? well, that listening attentively to the many voices and opinions that are being heard right now in that vast 'kingdom in the middle,' the people's republic of china, is extremely stimulating, is vitalizing. there are many excellent correspondents - whatever they may say about the european union - from germany, from my own country, from almost all european countries, based in china. i therefore recommend: follow their reports, stand up for their rights above all i have made this clear in my report enrich your knowledge and sharpen our vision! and then i come to the last one. i'm not gonna join in with the dreadful images of china. it is precisely this enormous development of china that is challenging us to innovate and to draw on our own intellectual and economic strength, which we still possess in the european union as a whole. let us act together, where necessary, especially against beijing. that's a little different from acting defensively. no, that is standing up for your interests in your own strength!
mr president, we are talking about a specific form of organization: the european mutual society. the commission already proposed a proposal in 1991, which was withdrawn in 2006 because the member states could not agree on it. and that last part is not strange. there is no clear legal definition of a 'mutual society'. there are differences in member states in terms of tradition, history, markets, governance and regulation. there are even countries where intermarriage is not permitted. 'mutual guarantee societies' are not mentioned by name in the treaties, so that article 352 tfeu must ultimately be the legal basis for them. and that means that the member states have a veto. the council will therefore always reject a proposal. so a new bill is a stillborn child. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. so this is a waste of time. time which we could much better spend on improving our subsidiarity test or on preventing the endless expansion of the powers of the european union. i am thinking in particular of article 114: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. that article is being used in an inappropriate way to further restrict the freedom of member states and the european parliament should no longer be involved in that. president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation (eec) on the common organization of the market in bananas. the european mutual society can therefore be safely forgotten. (the speaker is prepared to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
"blue card" is the answer. i think this only confirms my point that member states have great differences in terms of tradition, history, markets, governance and regulation. the 17 million people you are talking about are already covered by a mutual society and they can be very satisfied with that. i agree with the edf spokesman who says that the member states can arrange this properly among themselves. there is no need to extend this structure, which would force member states which have no tradition of doing so to harmonize on the basis of european legislation.
mr president, i am concerned about the integrity of sport, i am concerned about the safety of our citizens and i am concerned about the lack of concrete action, since organised crime is infiltrating sport in europe. the shocking results of the investigation by europol, which were presented recently, have revealed a widespread network of criminal organisations that have been involved in fixing hundreds of football matches across europe. match-fixing is a new form of crime with high revenues and low sentences and detection rates. it is used as a tool by criminal organisations to make and launder money from activities such as drug or human trafficking by gambling on fixed matches. we know about the efforts of the european commission to address match-fixing. however, today, we would like to hear from you, commissioner. how are you planning to address, now, the involvement of criminal gangs in european sports competitions, which is threatening the integrity of sport? you mentioned europol, you mentioned eurojust, but they need tools, they need a definition in criminal law, and they need better european cooperation. some member states are still in denial. those member states are especially vulnerable, since they are not alert and do not perceive match-fixing as a threat. with this attitude, they are creating safe havens for criminals. the commission should take up a stronger coordinating role. we cannot afford to wait to take action until the council of europe is finished with the match-fixing convention. waiting until the end of 2014 is not going to stop criminal organisations. action is needed now. what does the commission intend to do today to protect our citizens and to safeguard the integrity of sports?
blue-card question. – mr iacolino mentioned the crim committee. i am also a member of that committee and i have written a paper specifically on match fixing for that committee because i sincerely believe this issue not only concerns sport but is also an important case for law enforcement and justice in which european cooperation is key. since the crim committee deals with organised crime, corruption and money laundering, i was wondering how mr iacolino, a rapporteur for the crim committee, is going to take up the issue of match-fixing in his forthcoming report.
mr president, thank you and apologies for this late change. under paragraph 2, we suggest introducing an oral amendment in order to replace ‘urges the authorities to act in strict accordance with their legislation and international obligations’. we propose to change this to ‘urges the authorities to act in strict accordance with international standards’, so as to be very clear that the legislation in place in egypt, which is partly mubarak-era and partly new, is not necessarily in line with international legislation. we want to be very sure that this message comes across. it has to be in line.
in writing. the pvv regrets the appalling situation of women in north africa. however, the pvv voted against the report by rapporteur costa. the report is too selective and fails to identify the real cause of the poor situation of many north african women; it is islam. the report ignores the deterioration of the position of women since the beginning of the uprisings and is not critical of, for example, the egyptian constitution which has worsened the position of minorities and women in egypt. the negative influence of islam on the position of women is ignored. this leaves an important cause of women's oppression in africa unnamed, and the solution far from being found.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament’s resolution on the multiannual financial framework (mff) because i reject the european council’s conclusion of 7-8 february 2013 on the mff, as it does not reflect the priorities that are necessary to achieve job creation and sustainable economic development. this notwithstanding, i strongly disagree with the call for the introduction of new genuine own resources and that revenues from a financial transaction tax should be allocated to the eu budget. equally, i do not support the proposal to make full use of the passerelle clause of article 312(2) tfeu, which would transfer power from member state level to eu level. i tabled amendments to delete these parts of the mff resolution, and my vote in favour of the resolution as a whole is not to be taken as support for these parts, but rather seen only from the viewpoint that the european council’s conclusion should be rejected.
in writing. - i am in favour of an agricultural policy which facilitates and stimulates the agricultural sector. in these times of volatile markets, direct income support is still needed. i'll back you up on that. the three greening requirements in the european commission's proposal were a litmus test. it is good that the european parliament has made these three greening requirements more workable. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. i support these improvements on the commission proposal. i had expected, however, that the compromise text of the committee on agriculture to make greening more flexible by the option of certification would be adopted in plenary. since that flexibility was not included in the negotiating mandate, i have concluded that i shall adapt my final vote accordingly. although i am in favour of maintaining the agricultural policy, i cannot agree to the negotiating mandate because the greening cannot be implemented flexibly. i therefore have changed my final vote to a negative one.
in writing. the pvv is not opposed to the fight against discrimination and racism. the pvv is against the european union interfering in this. in doing so, the eu is breaking its own rules. for example, by saying that the eu should promote a culture of respect and tolerance through education. according to its own treaties, the eu is not about education at all. that is the policy of the member states. the pvv therefore does not see this motion as a call against discrimination and racism but as a further extension of the eu's power. the pvv cannot support the expansion of the power of the brussels bureaucracy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, my question to my conservative colleagues would be: what are we voting for today? what are we voting for? we are not voting about the future of ets, we are simply voting about saving the ets. that is what we are voting about. is this against industry? the same industry that got allowances for nothing until now? industry that is still getting 85% of its allowances for free in the third phase that started this year? are we sacking them? no, we are not. did you read the financial times this morning, where industry is asking to support backloading – industries like shell, eon and edf. these are not my usual allies, i must say, but i for once find myself in their gang. why is that? because they see that their innovation is being killed in europe. they see that coal-fired power plants are now the cheapest option for energy, and that is increasing in europe. that is the problem we are having, and that is what we are talking about. we are talking about buying time. we are talking about a backloading proposal that is only buying time to have a discussion for a real fundamental reform of ets. to those who are asking for a real fundamental reform of ets, i agree, but we need time for that. the carbon price will collapse to one euro if we vote against the backloading proposal. then there will be no carbon price. then we will have killed the ets. if that is your purpose, be honest about it and say so. what we are doing now is buying time for the debate. let us have a discussion on the fundamental reform of ets. i am in favour; australia is in favour because they want to link with us; china is looking at pilot projects, so they want to join us later on as well. so at least let us have a discussion, but we need time and backloading for that – so support it!
mr president, this is a very bizarre debate, because if there is one industry in which i believe that climate rules are almost by definition fair, it is the aviation industry. for example, if you fly from beijing to paris, it doesn't matter if it's a european plane, a chinese plane, an american plane, or a brazilian plane. if you all have the same costs, it's by definition fair to take action there. that is why i am so disappointed that we are now being forced to wait a year. i'm all for it, though. i support the commission and the rapporteur in this proposal. - why? - why? because i think that a genuine global agreement within icao is a wonderful prospect, because it will do us more than just a european measure. but these icao negotiations must not be a black box, from which we will be able to get white or black smoke in a year's time. no, i would very much like the european commission to keep us, as the european parliament, informed of developments and ask it to report to us regularly.
i sometimes get the feeling that we are in a repetition of the cop 15 negotiations, where we looked back at europe, very ambitious, and saw that it was empty behind us. it's a little bit like the scene in american graffiti where two cars are driving at each other really hard and each car is hoping that the other one will swerve off first. my point about the emissions trading system is that we are not both moving away, but we are all ultimately driving in the same direction. yes, we have to go for ets in aviation and there is nothing i would like more than for it to work. but i think that in the end we are better off with an ets that applies to the whole world, so to speak, than standing here and seeing our industry being hurt, that we are alone and have an emissions trading system that does not work. so i support the current measure, it should not take too long, the pressure should be great and it should finally work from next year, but do not rush ahead so fast that we end up lacking supporters. look out and take care of first followers.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job. before i make my remarks to the european commission, maybe we could all remind providers of goods and services that they do not actually have to wait for the implementation of the directive to provide their services in an equal manner. it is not only about legislation. i hear what the commission is saying about the reporting, but i find that a very bureaucratic approach. we do not really need to use the test-achats case in order to keep the report on hold. i think there are many good reasons to report, even before 2014. let’s face it: even if the directive has been on the table since 2004, it is only a law on paper. if you look at the actual reality that we are living in, we know – even without your report – that there is very unequal provision of services to men and women. one point which is addressed only summarily in ms gurmai’s report is access to sexual and reproductive health services, which are very restricted and limited in some countries – usually for ethical and moral reasons on religious grounds. this disproportionately affects women. they are not so much directed against women, but they affect women. there is, therefore, a case of indirect discrimination. i hope that the commission will take that into account when reporting. finally, when we vote separately on paragraph 19, my group will vote against that paragraph. that is the paragraph on including the media in the directive because, although sometimes i am personally disgusted – how can i put this politely – by the things i see in the media, i do not think that restricting freedom of speech is actually the way to go. we have been approached by lobbyists from the media. we will indeed vote against article 19, but i think that the media should take responsibility themselves and make sure that they do not discriminate against women. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mrs morvai, i fully agree with you that it is a shared responsibility which is, unfortunately, not always the case in practice, as we know. but my point was that when sexual and reproductive health services are provided, sometimes there are restrictions which disproportionately or very one-sidedly affect women. this is what i was arguing for: to make sure that women have access to the full range of services so that they have a choice. they should have a choice themselves, regardless of the fact that, of course, men too are responsible for family planning. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – this is a very difficult point and we have often discussed it in the context of legislation against discrimination. as i said, i often see things in the media which i think are incredibly offensive and discriminatory, either against women or men or which are otherwise discriminatory. at the same time, i do not think that including the media in this particular legislation would be the solution to that; i think there might be other ways. but i would also use this position to make an appeal to the media to take their responsibility themselves.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, commissioner, if we talk about gender discrimination, we also need to talk about transgender discrimination. the fundamental rights agency very recently did a survey among over 90 000 eu citizens who are lgbt persons. one of the things that they found is that a staggering 35% of transgender persons say that they have faced physical assault in the last five years. that is more than one third, and that is physical assault. transgender persons are among the most vulnerable people in the eu. they deserve our protection, but they are falling through the cracks in our policies. they are the ‘t’ in the lgbt movement, but the legislation on sexual orientation does not apply. they are not discriminated against on account of their sexual orientation. they are discriminated against on account of their gender, but the women’s rights movement does not take up their cause either. not nearly enough people care about this group. i do, and i hope a majority of this parliament does too. please vote in favour of our amendment tomorrow. thank you.
president, commissioner damanaki, it was only a short time ago that we were here discussing the new fisheries policy, which must be sustainable and, on the other hand, take into account the income of fishermen. but now things are getting out of hand with these two countries, iceland and the faeroe islands. how can we explain this to our own people, the mackerel fishermen, also in the netherlands? prices are just going down. you play a central role in this, and i would like to ask you how far you are on these steps. you just announced them. secondly, we in the eu are a community of values. a deal is a deal, and that goes for iceland. iceland is preparing to join the union. we must understand and also realize that this cannot be done in this way.
networks, information, infrastructure, their security is essential in our networked and communicative society and cybercrime is also a growing problem. tno, a dutch research institute, has calculated that in my country alone, some 10 billion euros a year, an unimaginable amount, could be damages. last week, it was a hit again at ing bank. fortunately, no money this time, but the reliability of our core systems will be a dent in the citizen. now, enisa is a very important player in the eu. our networks need to be robust and secure and it can also be better for the national supervisors, for the eu cybercrime teams. i would also like to draw attention to the fight against this and that, as mr ehler has pointed out, in the cyber security centre recently opened at europol in the hague. i have two more questions. the first is: what are the extra costs of relocating to athens on a rational basis? is there money available for this? what's the deal? secondly: five years, an evaluation. i expect such rapid developments that we should actually be looking at where we are three years from now and i think that parliament should be very critically involved because this step, once taken, is no guarantee that we are really equipped. mr chichester has been a lion in the debate, very well. but are we now sure that we are adequately equipped to face up to this avalanche of developments?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to commend our rapporteur, mr othmar karas, for the important work he has done in this parliament and also in the consultations with the council and the commission to reach this agreement, together with the other members. mr president, this agreement contains important priorities for our group. increased capital buffers for banks to help them weather the crisis. extra high buffers for systemic banks, because we want to avoid banks having to be bailed out with taxpayers' money. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. it is essential that banks can provide loans to smes and this has been rightly taken into account in the capital requirements. this capital requirements legislation is also an important foundation under the new banking union. and with commissioner barnier i would like to say: we've got to get a move on! there is an agreement between the council and parliament to place banking supervision under the european central bank. but how are we to interpret the discussions between the finance ministers in ireland last week? does that mean we are slowing down or are we keeping our ambition? as far as this parliament is concerned, we shall also vote on the agreement quickly and we shall do so. the same applies to the crisis mechanism. i would urge you, commissioner barnier, to come forward with the proposal for a resolution authority for banks before the summer, so that we can complete it before the european elections.
central banks should have been much more vigilant in their control of bank money creation. this is a matter of public interest, because money creation carries with it the danger of inflation. but it is also in the public interest that the best-managed banks survive and that the other banks do not. the new directive mixes monetary policy with economic policy, but monetary policy is and remains the responsibility of the central bank, while economic policy is the responsibility of the bank itself. the new directive will remove the responsibility of banks for their own operations. if a normal company is run poorly, it goes bankrupt or the management is fired, and why should banks be any different? the new directive also does not take account of the differences between member states. it is thus another example of the european union's desire to suppress national legislation and replace it with supranational legislation. mr president, we must reflect on the way the banking sector is run and increasing the banks' buffers is a good idea. a well-run bank would have done that a long time ago. a well-run bank doesn't take irresponsible risks. it is an illusion to think that these european agreements will spare badly run banks from all problems. a more responsible approach to lending could have prevented the current financial crisis, but these new measures restrict free enterprise and have all the hallmarks of mucking up the well after the calf has drowned.
we are almost at the end of the vote. i would like to make a very brief comment, as a member of the delegation for relations with the united states, on what happened yesterday in boston. we have all seen the terrible images and i hope that all my colleagues can say with me today: today we are all americans.
i would like to thank the president-in-office and mr draghi for being here in the plenary of the european parliament. i think the greens also know very well that the ecb has contributed a great deal to the stability we have seen so far, thanks to statements last year that the ecb would always save the euro. that is appreciated, but it is also seen as a danger. you are right in saying that monetary policy will never be able to hold the euro together in the end and that the euro needs more structural support from politics. the ecb cannot continuously, so to speak, intervene in what politics is not doing. one of the major problems could be the independence of the ecb, and that is very important. i would like to speak to you about that, about that independence, because you yourself sometimes put that independence at risk when you make political choices in your statements. let me quote a few. for example, you said in the economic affairs committee of the european parliament last february that austerity is inevitable for countries with high debt. it is strange that you do not mention countries which also have high private debt. you always talk about public debt. why do you not mention countries with high public and private debt, such as the netherlands, which has a combined debt higher than italy? you know that, and yet you never talk about it. is that a political choice you're making on the spot? you also say that the measures must ultimately be to reduce costs, public expenditure, and not to raise taxes. that too is a political choice. why then do you not mention the tax evasion which is taking place in europe, in the eu, on a daily basis? that's not what you're talking about. nor have you mentioned the corporate tax, which has fallen from 35% to 25% on average over the last ten years. these are revenue losses for countries you're not talking about. you only talk about the crisis being solved by cutting spending. that's a political choice you're making. and that threatens the independence of the ecb. but you go further. at the european council last march you even played with figures when you played with mr hollande with labour productivity which included inflation as opposed to wage increases which did not. by playing with numbers like that, france came out very badly and you did that to hollande. that was also a political choice. why are you doing this? the independence of the ecb is very important and you are putting it at risk. why not talk about other factors that drive up the cost? not just labour costs, but also, for example, raw material costs. have you seen the financial times yesterday which showed that the commodity trading houses have increased their profits more than tenfold in ten years? - why? - why? because there is a shortage of raw materials, which means an increasingly high cost for our companies. that cost increase, you're not talking about that. you're just talking about the cost of labor. it's also a political choice. all these choices are dangerous and i ask you if you really want to be a politician, but then you might have to go to another institution. or you will stick very much to your own monetary mandate, but you will not be making choices every time about whether or not to address countries. and if you want to address countries, you could also mention germany's large surplus. for example, you never mention this, although it is also very disruptive for the very monetary union we are talking about. i would like to hear more about that. finally, we attach great importance to democratic control of the ecb as a supervisor, and the european parliament has enforced that. i hope that the ecb will also welcome this very much, that indeed the european parliament exercises a clearer democratic control over the ecb as a supervisor, because this is an additional function. that is no longer just a monetary function, but it is a function that requires additional democratic control. we therefore expect you, mr draghi, to be very clear about the importance of democratic control for this kind of addition to the banking union, which indeed must be completed as soon as possible, but with democratic control.
the ecb's core task is to ensure low inflation. low inflation creates consumer confidence and thus growth and jobs. it's been a tried and tested recipe for decades for countries like germany and the netherlands. this is a fundamentally different approach from that used in the southern countries, where high inflation was used to evaporate government debt. the ecb is currently ignoring this core task. it may be legal, but it was never intended to buy up government debt. the balance of payments - target ii - was never intended to run so high, and monetary policy was never intended to combat the imbalances of the euro zone. the european council in madrid in december last year stressed the need to strengthen the european monetary system and to strengthen the european monetary system. that means, mr president, that the member states must be brave and put forward a plan to dissolve the euro zone. that, mr president, is the only solution.
rapporteur. − madam president, i would like to start by thanking the european court of auditors, the agencies, my colleagues, shadow rapporteurs and the secretariat of the committee on budgetary control, including stagiaires, who worked very hard on all the reports on agencies and joint undertakings. we all know that this debate does not always attract the most attention in the house, but we have to be very clear that it is a very important political debate. it is the only time of the year when agencies and joint undertakings undergo public scrutiny of their activities. we should not underestimate the political power that we have as a parliament in this task. i noticed the political power that we exercise when i tried to persuade agencies to improve a lot of things that they are working on – their management, procedures, internal rules, personnel policy, etc. the fact that we are able to refuse their discharge is a huge power. when i started on my reports, i decided to focus on three elements in particular. first of all, the effectiveness of agencies – whether their overheads are not too high, whether the administrative burden they are undergoing is not too high and whether we do not have too many small agencies that are just not fit for their task simply because they are too small. secondly, i focused on the independence of agencies. there is a reason why we have agencies and do not just let the commission take these tasks. they have to be independent: independent from the commission, from the member states, but also from industry. i focused on that as well. thirdly, conflicts of interest. this was one of the main elements we discussed last year, and it will be discussed further in the ayala sender report. let me focus primarily on a few individual agencies and especially on the environment agency. in a few weeks’ time, the current executive director will step down after being in office for ten years. she has an incredible track record. her personal authority might even be greater than that of the agency itself. she has built the environment agency into an example of how to run an agency. year after year she collected positive audits and positive reports from this house, but last year we saw a radical change. we saw a very critical change. in the end we did grant discharge to the agency – with very good reasons – but it was a very difficult procedure. last year’s smoke did lead to an olaf investigation, and now some are saying that, as there is an ongoing olaf investigation, we cannot grant discharge. but is that not going round in circles? first we create smoke, then the smoke leads to an investigation by olaf, then we discover that there is no fire, but still there is an olaf investigation, and now to complete the circle some of us say that we should not grant discharge. i strongly believe that an olaf investigation, in itself, is absolutely no reason for refusing or postponing discharge. it would be absolutely disproportionate if we decided tomorrow during the vote to refuse discharge right now and to postpone it until later on. i therefore strongly urge my colleagues to vote in favour of granting discharge to the environment agency tomorrow.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - the committee on development and cooperation has even greater difficulties than the other committees in monitoring expenditure. this policy is being carried out far from europe. the quality of the european court of auditors' reporting is beyond doubt and we therefore rely on it. so three points. firstly, the commission will have to do more in the future with indicators that provide measurable results in development policy. secondly, at the same time, the eu member states will have to choose. you cannot cut staff and demand that the eu delegations monitor more closely spending on, for example, budget support to developing countries. the court of auditors rightly notes that more staff is needed, particularly in this area of development policy. finally, it is important to reiterate the court's conclusion that there are fewer errors in development policy, and considerably fewer, than in the spending of some other european union policies.
i would also like to welcome the council here and say that i was impressed first of all by their enthusiastic report. the best thing would be - the proof of the pudding is in the eating - for the council to put its act behind its words and simply answer the questions put to it by the discharge authority, which is parliament. the commission's discharge is a matter for the council. for the umpteenth time, we are having more or less the same debate. the court of auditors has not given a positive statement of assurance and in all likelihood this parliament - and the liberal group will do the same - will give a discharge again. the indicators are not always positive, but we are going to discharge again. i am also behind it, as i said, and why am i behind it? because there are small improvements visible. one of the improvements the commissioner mentioned is something that parliament has been calling for since 2003 and that has been mentioned in almost every discharge resolution: a declaration by the member state. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is voluntary and the commission will have to make it attractive for member states to do so. the commissioner has already mentioned it. i have been asked to give my cooperation to the working party. i will certainly do so, albeit in the completely independent position of a member of parliament. it is up to the commission to make proposals in this respect, not parliament. but we will hope that the working group will come up with proposals which will make it attractive for member states to make that declaration and thus ultimately achieve the great objective of the court of auditors issuing a positive statement of assurance.
i would like to start by agreeing with the general remarks made by mr staes, including those on the discharge of the european parliament, and i would like to draw attention to one proposal in particular. every month meps receive over €4000 for so-called general expenses, such as office supplies, magazines, books, home office equipment and other items. you might expect these various expenses to be well controlled. that is not the case at the moment. some meps keep a close record of what they use the allowance for. but there are also meps who have only a rough idea of their spending. i myself save about 30 000 euros a year from the office fee. i also put it back into the ep's coffers, but i have no idea how much money my colleagues send back each year. in short, there is no control whatsoever over the way the compensation is spent. my group therefore proposes that a proper accountability system be introduced as soon as possible. it's the least the taxpayer can expect from us. the other proposal i would like to draw attention to is the discharge of the general budget, section 3 on the commission. other speakers have already referred to the proposals of the s&d group and i have a comment on them. in the committee on budgetary control we agreed that the commission should be asked to undertake a study which takes a closer look at the differences between the remuneration of national and european civil servants. today, most national policy officials are directly or indirectly involved in european negotiations and the gap in competence between them and european officials seems to have narrowed. hence, such a study is not a luxury at this time. i am surprised to see a proposal from the s&d group to scrap this call for a study. it is not clear why, because here too it is a matter of transparency. european citizens have a right to know that their tax money is being spent well. i therefore urge my colleagues and the groups to support such a call for a study.
today we have another interesting glimpse into the kitchen of the european parliament as it discharges the 2011 budget. the number of employees increased by 4%. in addition, 563 civil servants earned more than the salary of the dutch prime minister. the court also has concerns about the control of tendering procedures. in particular, exceptional award procedures are carried out by the directorates-general. read it, it doesn't match. the ep travel agency is not audited for its performance, although the pvv tabled a widely accepted amendment to carry out such an audit. apparently, there's no interest in where the citizen's money goes. europarl-tv continues to broadcast eu propaganda against the wishes of this parliament, while only a handful of eu supporters are still watching. the unnecessary lux film prize of almost 600,000 euros is also happily awarded. the pvv concludes, mr president, that the european union does not make us money, but only costs us money, a lot of money. to paraphrase former prime minister thatcher with the utmost respect: the problem with europe is that eventually you don't have any money left.
- i'm the reporter. - i would like to focus in my closing remarks on the discharge of the european environment agency. we must realize that even the postponement of discharge is in fact a kind of political condemnation. it's going to be in the media, and the adage "where there's smoke, there's fire" will be reinforced everywhere. so we have to be very careful with that. that is why i am so surprised that the ppe group wants to postpone the discharge of the european environment agency. because, on what grounds? it is not based on documents from the european court of auditors or the internal audit service, because they have not found any irregularities. if we did, the discharge of the european environment agency would be a piece of cake. no, the ppe group is doing so on the basis of the simple fact that there is an olaf investigation, and we do not know what it is about. in other words, the ppe group wants to condemn the european environment agency, the director, politically on the basis of rumours. that's the bottom line. if i listen carefully to the arguments, the fact that the olaf report is due in a few weeks is decisive. and that's a reason to say tomorrow "no, we don't give a discharge". what if it hadn't been a few weeks, but a few months? was that a reason for the delay? i find it really incomprehensible and irresponsible the behaviour of a large, no, the largest group in this parliament. i find it incomprehensible that rumours, the fact that a report may be published in a few months' time which gives a negative assessment of the european environment agency, should be a reason for condemning a person and a european institution politically. that this is coming from the anti-european angle is fine, but that this is coming from the ppe group is really irresponsible.
panagiota constantinidou is a courageous teenager from cyprus. she once believed in the eu dream, but no longer does. she feels betrayed by brussels. when i read the hohlmeier report on the 2014 budget for the european parliament, i understand that. an increase of 3.6%. i see salary increases and the budget for civil servants goes from 937 to 979 million. the number of civil servants earning above the balkenende standard rises to 858. - what? the cost to visitors and opinion-makers from third countries is more than 30 million and the cost to the megalomaniac house of european history is doubled to 12.7 million. i will conclude with a quote from panagiota: "i'm really thinking about whether i want to have anything to do with brussels. it's inhuman what they're doing to us". panagiota, your voice has been heard and you will be there because you are brave and honest.
experience shows that if you really want to cut back, you often need external pressure. and commissioner rehn has proved in many of our european member states that it is only external pressure that really leads to major cuts. as has been said before, 2014 is a special year for the european parliament, with extra costs. but it's a special year because of the election. let these elections be the external pressure we need to make a little more progress with the cuts than without it. i am concerned, not so much about whether we are able to carry out our work with a new budget. no, i am much more concerned about the support of the european people for this institution, the european parliament. and it will certainly not be enough to make headlines about the european parliament's own budget being increased substantially. i am therefore, as the representative of the most pro-european party in the netherlands, particularly critical of our own budget.
a new crane has recently been installed in brussels. the so-called house of european history is being built in parc léopold at a cost of over 50 million euros. the construction of this new propaganda temple has raised many eyebrows, particularly here in strasbourg. last month the mayor of strasbourg pointed out that the official seat of the european parliament is in his city. if there is a need for a new centre to report on europe, it is here, in his city. so, last march, the mayor, through the regional newspaper dna, announced plans for a brand-new information center here in the city. the first phase of 2 million is something that strasbourg is willing to pay for, but the second, much more expensive phase of 15 million euros, is something that europe has to pay for. we must not give in to the demands of strasbourg and we must also have one seat for parliament in brussels!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, to make it very clear from the start, my group and i are supporters of ukraine joining the european family and we wholeheartedly support the principle of visa facilitation and ongoing cooperation resulting finally in an agreement, but it has to be done on the basis of european values. we cannot say that we are very attached to values but not right now. just a couple of weeks ago, a dutch person who lives in paris was beaten up by homophobic thugs. draft legislation like the legislation which is on the table in ukraine contributes to a climate where those things can happen. he became the ugly face of what homophobia can do. draft legislation is not innocent, therefore i think that, if this house takes itself seriously as a defender of human rights, we should take a stand. my group therefore calls for a referral back to committee and for us not to push for a vote right now. we should give ourselves the time to talk to our ukrainian colleagues and make sure the legislation in ukraine will not come into force. this whole cooperation process is a two-way street. we want to extend our hand to the ukrainians but we also expect the ukrainians to do their bit for fundamental rights. i therefore think this is the appropriate tool. it is the appropriate moment to take this position. it is true that we may be applying double standards because we have been less strict with other countries, but the fact that we made mistakes in the past does not mean that we need to continue making the same mistakes all the time. i therefore call on colleagues and on the other groups to support the proposal of the alde group to refer the report back to committee. let us not push for a vote, because if there is a vote then, unfortunately, we will have to abstain. i hope it does not come to that.
blue-card question. – mr president, i was going to ask mr tomaševski a question, but mr díaz de mera and the commissioner said more or less the same thing. mr díaz de mera, you say that all ukrainian citizens can benefit from the visa facilitation. mr tomaševski and the commission referred specifically to ngos. but what will you do if it turns out that ngos of lgbt people are effectively banned? that means that they cannot benefit from visa facilitation. how can we then still vote in favour?
blue-card question. – just for clarification, are you now calling the human rights of lgbt persons a small matter compared to the big matter of visa liberalisation, or did i misunderstand?
mr president, the obligation to introduce anti-discrimination legislation is an integral part of the visa dialogue. if we take ourselves seriously, we need to send a very strong message to the authorities in ukraine that if they take the despicable anti-gay-propaganda legislation any further, they are in direct violation of our dialogue. i appeal to the ukrainian parliament to see sense and respect basic human rights for lgbt persons too. i wholeheartedly support alde’s proposal to give the ukrainian parliament a chance to show that they will do so because, if not, they are the ones responsible for doing their citizens a disservice, not us. if the propaganda laws are taken further, visa liberalisation will not be taken further. the dutch government, for one, has already promised to use its veto in that case, and it only takes one. human rights are not a small matter. they are, in fact, the most important matter that i can think of.
the commissioner said that it was late, but i emphasize that i take his words to mean that it is not too late for improvements. he will also give that himself and we will be able to do the same. i can tell you that in the committee on regional policy mr vlasák, who has just spoken, has started to prepare a report on which we are going to vote. that brings me straight to my first question on the guidelines. we are not co-legislators in the guidelines. on the other hand, it is very important to make it a coherent whole for businesses, citizens and public authorities. so we are submitting a report from the committee on regional policy which we will be able to vote on in may. now, what is this all about? the point is, i just see things going a little differently. you use different figures, you use different base years. as you say, you sometimes introduce unnecessary differences in the nuts regions, which we think are necessary. the second point i would like to make is this: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe must make breakthroughs in nuclear technology and that is where these large companies in such a chain, in the region, are of great importance. so that is a point we cannot just let go of. the civilian wouldn't understand that either. i repeat, mr vlasák will be presenting a report and we will certainly come back to it. i would also like to underline your openness and attitude today. i am very pleased about that and we will certainly invite you to join us in committee when the vlasák report is finished.
"blue card" question. what is it? i am surprised by the avalanche of comments about larger companies. in fact, mrs schroedter herself has already indicated the solution, namely that you should attach clear conditions to the relocation, the relocation of these firms. this is the way to avoid such a negative effect. but it is wrong, i think, that she should be so dismissive. it is precisely the combination of large and small firms that can do much more for innovation in europe. does she agree with me on that?
the crisis in cyprus has once again demonstrated the euro's weakness. it's a horror. europe is stumbling from crisis to crisis, from bailout to bailout, and it's getting from bad to worse. cyprus is already the fifth largest bailout in three years! the european union is continuing to sink deeper and deeper into the euro-marsh. but the eu always manages to make things worse than they already are. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial interests are not undermined by the financial crisis. the euro was already doomed, but now even the savings of the citizens are no longer safe. savers all over europe are aware that what is happening in cyprus today could happen to them next time. in the meantime, the question is not whether new bailouts are needed, but when. two weeks later, cyprus is already in need of another six billion euros. slovenia seems to be the next candidate for a bailout. there is simply no end to this euro-hell. with the euro, the european union has brought about a total crisis in europe. just yesterday, the imf released its forecast for the world economy: 3.3% growth in the community. that's great news! but not for the eurozone! here, the imf does not predict growth, but economic contraction. president. - the euro is finished. the euro crisis can only be tackled if european leaders recognize that the euro itself is the problem. if a country can't keep its own pants on, it has to leave the eurozone and devalue its own currency. that is the only option for cyprus. the bailouts are wasted money and solve nothing. the netherlands must stop wasting money on this and, mr president, one good word of advice, save europe from the european union.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am just taking a little more time for all the work that we put into this. the next vote might be one of those confusing votes where you could easily vote in the opposite way to the way you would like to. i would like to emphasise that, if you want to grant discharge to the environment agency – and i urge you to do so – then you have to vote against at the next vote. so, once again, to vote in favour of discharge, vote against in the next vote.
in writing. - i cannot be counted on to give discharge to the european commission. the member states must show more responsibility in spending european money. year after year, the european court of auditors finds that a large proportion of the errors could have been detected and corrected in the member states. the fact that this is not the case demonstrates the need for good member state declarations. if a minister declares himself politically responsible for the correctness of the spending of eu money in his member state, the error rate will undoubtedly decrease. the european commission, which has ultimate responsibility for good administration, does not exert sufficient pressure on member states to issue these member state declarations. the member states, with four exceptions, do not give it sufficient priority. and that is when every euro deserves to be put to good use. shouldn't this be obvious to everyone in a time of crisis? i also cannot agree to granting discharge to the european parliament. the appropriations for 2011 were up 5% compared to 2010. i do not think that is a sound financial policy. such a budget increase, particularly at a time when citizens and businesses in the member states are struggling to cut back, raises the question of whether the european parliament is really representing the citizens in this.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, when i talk to civil society organisations in croatia, i am in total awe of what has been achieved for women’s rights, for lgbt rights, for minority rights and for democracy. processes that took about 40 years in the netherlands have taken ten years or less in croatia. in particular, the most vulnerable, the most discriminated citizens who need european values and rights the most have squeezed everything they could possibly get out of the accession process. our rights and our values are, i think, the most beautiful things that we have to offer and they have been grasped with both hands. that does not mean, however, that croatia is a total paradise on earth yet. the work must not stop at accession. in its march monitoring report the commission identified a number of issues that still need work and, while we as a parliament may be very positive about progress made, we should not shout ‘hallelujah’ just yet. therefore we have proposed an amendment to paragraph 3. another important issue we want to add is about the economic situation. after accession croatia will fully participate in eu 2020 and be accountable under the economic governance mechanisms, like any other member state. we are worried about the fall of gdp and about the unemployment rate, which it is just under 20%. if we take croatia seriously as a new member state, we need to express these worries, and i hope you will support this. let me conclude by congratulating our 12 new colleagues from croatia. from my experience, i can tell them that they have been chosen for the most wonderful job there is. i wish them the best of luck. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – well, when planning my summer holiday this year i might actually go to croatia instead of bavaria! but it is very clear from the monitoring report that there is still quite a lot of work to do. of course we want to welcome croatia, but we also want to express what still needs to be done. i have every faith that this croatian government will continue with their reforms, but i think it is also our duty as a parliament to point out what our worries still are.
first of all, my party and i are positively opposed to the prospect of the western balkan countries joining the eu, of course under strict application of the european accession criteria. i am sorry to say that i have serious reservations about croatia being the future 28th member state. the fact is that anyone who reads the open letter to chancellor merkel from the adriatic institute for public policy on croatia, which was published earlier this week, on 10 april, is looking straight into a political and financial cesspool in zagreb. it really pains me to say this, because i spent a lot of time in croatia during the war in the 1990s. i have a lot of sympathy for that country, but... commissioner, have you also taken note of this open letter, because we cannot ignore it. because the writing literally says: 'the eu is turning a blind eye to organised crime and massive corruption in croatia.' do you feel called to something? and more importantly - because i am not at all against croatia's accession - what corrective mechanisms will the european commission have once croatia has achieved eu membership status?
the european parliament has also expressed its concern about the situation in turkey, which is a country with a long history of violence and which has been a major source of conflict in the region. last week, the fourth judicial reform package was adopted by the turkish parliament. i therefore welcome the words of mrs creighton and of commissioner füle that we should congratulate minister ergin on his efforts. because these are steps in the right direction. i also hope that the action plan on human rights will lead to further positive developments. the same applies to the new legislation on immigration, which was adopted last week and which we have been calling for for some time. the negotiations between the turkish government and abdullah öcalan appear to be proceeding constructively and with the support of the turkish people. that is what i most appreciate, the support of the turkish people for that process and also the support of civil society. the apology by israel also seems to indicate an improvement in bilateral relations between israel and turkey. the french government has lifted the block on chapter 22 and you, mrs creighton, expect to be able to deal with that chapter in the coming month. turkey has indicated that it also intends to open chapter 19, social policy. turkey has never been interested in this, but now it seems that it is suddenly interested. i think this is a positive. it is against this background and in the light of these developments that we are discussing today parliament's resolution, which calls for the maintenance and further development of a constructive relationship between the eu and turkey, constructive in the context of the negotiating process. but to achieve that, it also requires a commitment on both sides. turkey, and it committed itself to this in 2005, needs reforms, not only because the eu wants them, but above all because the turks have to do so for their own country. if they want to have a modern and prosperous society, they must bring about that reform process. freedom of expression, freedom of the media, and all other fundamental freedoms such as the rights of religious communities, women and gender are very important. so, in terms of legislation, turkey seems to be on the right track, but it is also a question of mentality, including among judges and prosecutors. the trial of the pianist seems to confirm parliament's concern on this point. i have tried to produce a fair and balanced resolution which will be a mirror for turkey. i welcome the reforms, but i also welcome them critically and very critically where they are needed. i just want to make one more point. the turkish government has not yet made a decision on the question of the kurdish question, but it is now in a position to make a new agreement with the new government of cyprus in the same positive way as it is doing with the kurdish problem, and i hope that this will happen again this year.
the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks. earlier this week, i spoke to the widow of one of the victims. she rightly expressed the hope that justice would be served against the torturers and murderers of her husband and his two companions. that brings me to the pressing question, commissioner: does the present protracted process really justify this hope? do you have any information? is there a transparent process here, which you say is turkey on its way to a state of law, which also gives support to christians, the minorities? the widow spoke positively. she had high hopes. but what about this trial? do you have any new information on that? i would add a second urgent question on the same procedure. at the end of last week i heard that the lawyer for the relatives of the malatya murders, erdal doğan, had been seriously threatened with death by one of the defendants! according to your information, commissioner, have the turkish authorities also taken effective measures to protect this lawyer? finally, i welcome the fact that the resolution calls on the turkish authorities in paragraph 33 to take strict and effective measures to combat anti-semitic expressions. i would like to add in one breath the correct finger-pointing by the turkish-jewish publisher, publicist and intellectual rifat bali that the european institutions should tell turkey that it cannot become an eu member state unless turkey decides to combat anti-semitism not with political declarations but with deeds, with the involvement of the judiciary.
article 49 of the eu treaty states that any european state which respects the values referred to in article 2 and is committed to promoting them may apply to become a member of the union. apart from the fact that turkey is no longer a european country geographically, it is in direct violation of the values and principles which we have held high in this house. in turkey, the values mentioned in article 2 such as freedom and equality are far from being achieved. turkey is sliding further and further down the ladder. the kemalism of ataturk, which was to make turkey a modern and secular state, has been destroyed. the day before yesterday, the turkish pianist fazil say was sentenced by the court to 10 months' imprisonment on probation. why would you do that? because last april, he tweeted a verse by the 11th-century persian poet omar khayyam. he would have insulted islam. in reply to my written question, the commission states that it is following the say case with concern. i call on the commission to put its word to its deed and to take strict action against the conviction of the pianist say, another violation of freedom of expression by turkey. how much more must the situation in turkey deteriorate before the commission finally realises that turkey is not european, does not want to be european and will never be european? europe and turkey can work together and trade with each other, but turkey does not belong in the european union. will the commission continue down the hopeless road or will it put words to action and finally stop the accession negotiations with turkey?
last month, turkish foreign minister ömer çelik called on christians who had left turkey to return. that sounds encouraging, but what about the practice for turkish christians? i am thinking of the legal battle that the erdoğan government is waging against the mor gabriel monastery over land holdings. and not just against that monastery, but against several monasteries. many christians are fed up with the growing uncertainty and have already left. the result: churches that are being demolished or converted into mosques, such as the recent aya sophia in izmir. the call to convert even the aya sophia in istanbul into a mosque is also growing. the fear is that if there is a ceasefire between erdoğan and the pkk, christians in eastern turkey will lose their already limited position altogether. they are being squeezed between erdoğan and öcalan. in short, the turkish government is not promoting the position of christians, it is applying the tactics of the verelendung. she's got a lot of time on her hands. the council and the commission should raise this issue in their discussions with turkey.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, ms oomen-ruijten, and thank our group’s shadow rapporteur, mr obiols, for his good work on this. the report supports the opening of five new negotiation chapters with turkey, and this in itself is a sign that we in parliament truly wish to see progress in relations. the report also clearly identifies the areas where a lot still needs to be done. the urgent need for hate-crime legislation and the situation of the freedom of speech are examples in these areas. the strength of this year’s report is that it not only criticises turkey but also recognises that if we really want improvements we should engage in actual negotiations. if we are serious about supporting the reunification process on the island of cyprus, we should be instrumental in having the turkish cypriots participating in the democratic process. therefore, i think it is a very good idea to support the amendment which asked the president of parliament to look into the possibility of having turkish-cypriot observers here in parliament.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, my thoughts have been straying a lot to brussels today. on the one hand i do not envy the men from serbia and kosovo trying to come to an agreement that both can explain to their party members and to their media. it must be excruciatingly hard. on the other hand i think they may be proud to be sitting there – to have a chance to make history and do the best thing possible for their people. i am keeping my fingers crossed. it feels a bit weird to debate without knowing the outcome yet – and i heard that the talks will be ongoing this week – but there are of course a number of issues, separate from kosovo, that are relevant to serbia’s accession process. one of the things i worry about is the continued presence of violent hooligan groups in serbian society. when it cancelled the gay pride event last october because of threats from these groups, the government was in fact saying that it does not have a monopoly on violence in serbia, that these groups are too strong and too violent for the government to control and that they pose a threat to the rule of law and to public security. i would like to see concerted action by all relevant authorities there to combat these groups, and i would like to hear from the commission whether this is happening or not. of course the best proof will be a successful and safe gay pride this coming october and a successful and safe football competition this year. on these and other issues serbia has its work cut out for it in the coming year, and today is the start of that coming year. i will keep my fingers crossed.
mr president, today our ears were directed at the talks which are taking place between serbia and kosovo. we hope that an agreement will be reached as soon as possible. in the meantime, important reforms are taking place in serbia. the legislative and judicial systems are changing massively and very fast. there is concern that the judicial reform process has its flaws. this is one of the reasons why the eu needs to remain engaged with serbia and support its reforms. the report also calls for initial and continuing professional training for judges in connection with this massive change in legislation. we also call for these changes in legislation to include alignment to the anti-discrimination acquis. we are especially concerned about the rights of the lgbt, roma and persons with disabilities. to secure their rights, legislative changes are crucial but are in themselves not enough. serbia should also engage in awareness-raising campaigns on these issues in order to change ways of thinking. we shall be following closely and giving our support for as long as serbia continues to make progress towards eu membership.
we are discussing the commission's strategy for the arctic. i must say that i am very disappointed when we talk about knowledge, responsibility, dialogue. in particular, responsibility is referred to as 'low-risk drilling' in the arctic. what exactly does the commission mean by that? i think it completely misses the debate that is going on in the united states right now and the fact that, for example, conocophilips has decided to cancel its 2014 drilling plans. that there are institutions that say: we are not going to drill in that area, in an area that is twice as affected by climate change! where's the idealism? where is the commission's foresight to say: we do not want drilling in the arctic, we want to protect that area and that is becoming an important eu commitment for once, instead of the vague talk about low-risk drilling, which is empty talk. it's not gonna help us.
parliament is angry at the procedure followed in the adjustment of the scoreboard, part of the so-called six-pack, a scoreboard used by the european commission to assess the economic performance of member states among themselves and to punish them if necessary. when the six-pack was adopted, my party was against the curtailment of national sovereignty, because national sovereignty is something to be proud of and not a historical mistake. the scoreboard is also proving to be useless in practice. everyone can see in his own country that unemployment is too high, or that public deficits are too high, or that regulations are too heavy. the commission is not needed for that. but the scoreboard does show that the eurozone is not stable, because germany has a dominant position. it is not germany's fault that the other countries are not competitive. member states which are unable to make their economies competitive in this respect will not be helped with a scoreboard. these countries are not able to compete in the euro zone and should therefore leave the monetary union for the good of their countries and for the good of their citizens. the fact that we are now talking about the procedure of the scoreboard and not about the implications of the transfer of power to brussels is a good indication that in this parliament too it is not about prosperity but about power, and unfortunately the european commission is no different. whether the correct procedure was followed here is not really important. member states must come to realise that they are responsible for the well-being of their citizens and their place in the world.
mr president, as i already announced in the debate last tuesday, the alde group, with reference to rule 175 of the rules of procedure, would like to request that this report be referred back to the committee. this is not because we are not fully supportive of visa facilitation with ukraine as an important step in cooperation but because we feel that more time is needed to resolve some remaining concerns, notably the anti-gay law which is currently before the ukrainian parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. perhaps it is also good for my colleagues that we have an agreement that this oral amendment is good, so that we would not have to vote on it either.
ukraine is a beautiful country and a good neighbour to a number of european member states. it is extremely important to maintain a good dialogue with ukraine. these new rules to facilitate the issuing of visas contribute to a better understanding between the union on the one hand and the authorities in kiev on the other. i am concerned, however, about the comments on the long-term development of a visa-free regime. the netherlands can hardly cope with the tsunami of disadvantaged immigrants from eastern and central europe, let alone with the opening of its borders with ukraine, a country of 45 million inhabitants. that is absolutely undesirable. president. - the ukrainians are welcome in the eu, provided they have a visa. and i would recommend to anyone to go to ukraine.
i do not understand, mr president, why a country would want to join the european union, which is failing in every way, at this time. after the breakup of yugoslavia, you would think croatia would think twice before rejoining a communist welfare state. nevertheless, croatia wants to join and will do so within a few months. they will certainly soon be overtaken by the unbridled meddling of brussels. i have always been against further enlargement of this union, but i wish the croats every success, because they will need it badly in the future. of course i voted against the report in the interests of the croats themselves.
mr president, a progress report on turkey is like an appendix. it's not good for you, and it's not going to get you anywhere. all we're doing is wasting paper on something that's never going to happen. nobody really wants turkey in, and the turks are getting a little tired of it, too. meanwhile, turkey is experiencing one of the most shameful trials in history, against the pianist fazil say, who was convicted for criticizing islam on twitter. a disgrace of the highest order! erdoğan is also involved in youth care in the netherlands. he apparently believes that turkish children cannot be raised by lesbian parents. another great disgrace. let him worry about real problems in his own country. mr president, the akp is slipping further and further away and the secular nature of turkey is still only a formality. more than enough reasons to stop the negotiations, and let us do so now.
the resolution on kosovo calls on five eu countries to recognise kosovo as an independent state. the european parliament is going way beyond its means. recognition of a new state is a very serious and sovereign choice of a state and a prerogative which does not belong to a european organization with a parliament. recognition is irrevocable, and that's why it's so important. until all member states recognise kosovo, we should not even be talking to the kosovars. the right of member states not to recognise a state should not be circumvented by unelected eu bureaucrats with little knowledge of international law. so, mr president, the union is negotiating on behalf of 22 member states, not on behalf of the union as a whole, with a country that may be de facto but not de jure, because the eu simply cannot yet call it that. this is unacceptable and the eu should stop the dialogue with kosovo.
author. − madam president, the struggle for human rights has moved online. the availability of the internet and new technologies has helped people to access information, to freely express themselves, to assemble and to document human rights abuses, which can then be shared with the rest of the world. governments that seek to retain control are afraid of empowered populations highlighting corruption, injustice and speaking out for justice, freedom and opportunities. the vietnamese government is no exception. it has imprisoned bloggers and democracy activists, and it has given them outrageously long prison sentences. on top of the consequences for individual dissidents and human rights defenders, a new decree on internet management would legalise content filtering, censorship and sanctions by the government against vaguely described ‘prohibited acts’. this decree would oblige internet companies and providers, including foreign ones, to cooperate with the government in the surveillance and tracking of cyber-dissidents. as the eu is also in the process of working on a free trade agreement with vietnam, it is essential that european companies seeking to do business and to create jobs in vietnam will not be met with surveillance and censorship, and are not forced to perform these acts either. these practices do not only have an impact on human rights, but also on opportunities to do business. they must end, and the eu strongly conveys this message today to the vietnamese authorities.
author. − mr president, like the united states, europe has seen its share of terrorism, and we continue to fight it to this day. however, in the same way that we seek to defend our open societies against attacks from the outside, we must defend them against erosion from within. security and freedom are not a zero-sum game. the america we value as a partner – as an ally – betrays its constitution by compromising basic principles, such as the presumption of innocence, and human rights in general. human rights also apply to suspects or to those convicted of the worst crimes. it is those values that distinguish open societies from closed ones. the national defence authorization act marks a low point in american history. if indefinite detention without trial were to happen in, say, egypt, the us would – rightly – be the first to criticise. i am also very alarmed by the fact that the chief defense counsel advised lawyers not to use computers for confidential contact with their clients. surveillance and disappearing files, as well as eavesdropping, violate fundamental rights. we call on the us congress to help president obama to close guantánamo bay prison. democracies and democrats must hold themselves, and each other, to the highest standards. in the words of norwegian prime minister jens stoltenberg, who spoke after the utøya attacks: ‘violence must be met with more democracy’.
president. - i too find it embarrassing to speak today about terror suspects in guantanamo bay, when today is the day on which the victims of the boston bombing are being buried. nevertheless, it is an important and topical subject which is on the agenda today in the context of human rights. mr president, it is clear that the prison at guantanamo bay seriously infringes many of the fundamental principles of international law, and sometimes even flagrantly violates them. i would like to give you an example of the violation of the right to habeas corpus. the americans have gotten themselves into an internal legal wasp's nest where there are really only losers. i'm not so worried about prisoners on hunger strike. it's happening all over the world, and it's a tried and tested way to get attention. that's why we're standing here today. the prisoners have succeeded. i would like to draw attention here to the fact that this is an internal american problem. it is a problem which we must continue to call for, even if we do not have to put our hand in that wasp's nest. it is clear to me that the eu should not function as a haven for ex-prisoners. we have enough problems at the moment with young europeans going to syria to fight. many young muslims will come to regard these ex-prisoners as martyrs and so they may further radicalize young people in europe. the us must try the prisoners and if they do not, they should be released and should be taken in by the countries of organizations such as the arab league, the african union and the oic. these organisations should take their responsibilities, not the eu.
i would like to point out to the colleagues who voted against backloading emissions trading last month a number of consistency problems. one of the reasons why it was said that 'we cannot intervene in the emissions trading system now' is because there is such a problem with emissions trading. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the emission trading scheme is not used to promote the production of electricity. and it was mainly the energy-intensive industries that were opposed to emissions trading. the energy producers are less affected. that proves that we need an additional energy policy. the additional energy policy means: setting a binding target for renewable energy. those who see problems with emissions trading on the one hand, but do not want to set an additional target for renewable energy on the other, have a consistency problem. so if you have a problem with emissions trading - and that was on this side of the house last month - vote now for real energy policy, that is, with a binding target for renewable energy. (the speaker agrees to answer a blue card question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
"blue card" is the answer. a single energy market is also what we need to work towards, but with clear policies on what kind of energy market. it 's very clear to me: the energy market must be renewable. that's the only real energy option that will bring us self-sufficiency, cheap and sustainable energy. so that is what we must work towards on behalf of europe.
commissioner, you talk a lot about 'choice neutrality' and 'technical neutrality', but sometimes that sounds too neutral to me. i have heard you speak about shale gas very often in the 'welt am sonntag' and today in the 'frankfurter allgemeine'. i do not hear you very often talking about renewable energy, which is - as many colleagues have already pointed out - the success story, more than shale gas, because frankly it is not our success story. the european success story is 'renewable'. there are already many successes in germany, but in my own country, for example, in the netherlands, only 3.4% is renewable, whereas the ambition was to reach 16%. we always over-invest in big renewable energy solutions, big offshore wind farms, when it is the citizen who can play a big role on a 'small scale'. the european commission, you, have so far taken few initiatives to promote this. when are you going to do that? one of the problems, as has been pointed out by several colleagues, is the solar panels and the price of those panels, which is now also going up, with the intervention of your colleague mr de gucht because of the chinese policy of distorting the market. can you tell us how, if this continues, you will at least ensure that renewable energy remains accessible to the small market?
rapporteur. − madam president, i will be speaking in english. i am so sorry for being slightly late; i have just got off a boat. i would like to thank everybody who worked on this file with me. there are of course the shadows, but there is also the secretariat of the committee and there is the european commission, which at every stage of this report brought us advice and shared their experiences with us and their expertise. that was really wonderful. also, almost all the governments of the balkan countries reacted to the draft report and the amendments, as did at least two dozen ngos and several agencies, so a lot of people were involved in creating this report. in that sense, we can say that the report has already has served its purpose, even before the vote, because it has led to a broad debate on women’s rights in balkan countries. i can already see that it has been taken up. the ngos are using this report to further their goals. i have already been invited to a couple of parliaments to come and talk about the report after we have voted on it tomorrow. i am very happy to say that, in the time between the publication of the draft version and the version that is being voted on now, we could remove the paragraphs concerning recommendations for croatia because they have already fulfilled it. i would hope that by next year perhaps, or the year after, if a revision is made, we will be able to remove almost all paragraphs, because all countries will have met the recommendations and have tried to further women’s rights. the most important point of this report is that a lot of rights now exist on paper. countries in the balkans have been very busy adopting all kinds of legislation to align with the eu acquis. but in practice, a lot of women can still not use it either because they do not know about it, because there are no institutions to report discrimination to, or because the rule of law does not yet work as it should for women. exceptionally, we have made not only a general recommendation for all the countries, but we have also set out very country-specific recommendations for each of the countries in the western balkans. we really hope that they will take up the gauntlet and start implementing them, so that we can remove these specific recommendations from future versions. one of the things i would also like to mention, as i promised some colleagues, is that we had a bit of debate on what to call a certain country. the choice was whether to call this country the ‘former yugoslav republic of macedonia’, or to leave out the ‘former yugoslav republic of’. in the end we reached a broad compromise, and we have decided to call it the former yugoslav republic of macedonia as a noun and to use ‘macedonian’ as an adjective. i hope that everybody in all the eu countries, as well as in the country mentioned, can live with that. it has been pointed out to me that not all linguistic versions comply with this, so i hope we can settle that problem so that everybody can be very happy with it and vote for it with all their hearts.
i am grateful to you, mrs weber, rapporteur of the report we have been waiting for. let us remember that this report is here after long debates on the situation of the media in italy and hungary. we are not limiting ourselves to those two countries, however, because we realise that there are many more european countries where there is something to be gained from media freedom, and we also know that good, honest democracy cannot exist without a free press. we in the european parliament are not in favour of telling journalists what is and is not allowed, of dictating ethics, we should not do that. what we do want is to ensure that they have the freedom to write what they want to write and that there is also a choice for citizens to choose one or the other press, i.e. that there is media pluralism. my question to the european commission is therefore: i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i would like to say that the commission is not involved in this.
- i'm the reporter. - let me start by saying something else. i have just heard in the dutch cabin mrs ada dingemans, one of our excellent interpreters, who is sadly leaving us, speak in her characteristic voice. i want that to be recorded in the minutes. we're going to miss her terribly. i'm glad i get to hear her again tonight. i would like to thank my colleagues from the committee on social affairs, but especially mr thomas mann, the econ rapporteur, and all my colleagues for the very pleasant and very fruitful cooperation. we all want a secure, sustainable and adequate pension. that is the guarantee and that is what we want for everyone. but pensions remain and are a responsibility of the member states. that does not mean that we as a european parliament have no opinion. pensions are already part of the consultation and designation process within the stability programmes and also the national reform programmes. what is important to me and to my colleagues is certainly the social component. how are we going to ensure that in each member state the elderly have and maintain a decent standard of living? we must ensure that, including in europe. we have an inverted population pyramid right now: i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done. we age. at present, one third of the european population is over 55 years old. we have a great many different systems of old age provision in europe. we have the first pillar's containment systems. they are the perfect expression of solidarity between generations and will continue to be the most important provision in the future. but a population that is becoming increasingly wealthy puts pressure, especially on the younger generation, and also puts pressure on solidarity. the financing of ever-increasing expenditure from the current budget does not only affect the stability pact. in countries where the financing deficit or the public debt is too high, the first priority is always to cut pensions and social benefits. that must be prevented. we must not only work longer - that was the argument - but we must also work with more people, especially those who are now forced to take to the streets. so, ensuring that older people can continue to work, focusing more efforts on flexible career and pension schemes and improving and adapting the conditions for continuing to work. but the first pillar also applies: reserving, reserving and saving. there are member states which have a second pillar, and these are usually pension institutions for which employers and employees have saved together. but there are also pressures, pressures from the financial crisis and the poor performance of the bond and stock markets and of course the rising life expectancy is also a problem there. the european commission now wants to improve the sustainability of the capital invested in pension funds. i think that's the wrong answer. - why? - why? it is not adequate, it is blocking, because it is mainly invested in poorly performing government bonds. this will have a downward effect on pension benefits for beneficiaries. i think you should give up now, mrs kroes. the commission should not make such a proposal. finally, the third pillar, the provision for individual savings. i think it should be more, but you have to know what you've saved, so that's why tracking system. and finally , the mobility. an open labour market with free movement can only flourish if people are not punished for doing so, and so there are a number of proposals on that. i thank you for your understanding, mr president. thank you very much.
i would like to start by saying, dear ria, that you have done your very best to improve the commission's disastrous pension proposals. you are very clear, particularly with regard to the second pillar of company pensions. you say that the commission must respect the systems of the member states. but why not also that clarity in the first pillar, the aow in the netherlands? we must reject interference there in the strongest possible terms. proposals to link the first pillar to years of work, to raise the minimum wage, to prevent early retirement are not the eu's concern, and that is independent of the fact that i think they are bad proposals. a first pillar pension should guarantee a decent standard of living, especially in times of crisis. however, the report states that a second and third pillar are often necessary for an adequate pension. the eu's interference is not in line with article 114 of the treaty, which states that the eu must refrain from tax provisions and the rights and interests of workers. i am very sorry that you did not say clearly in the first pillar that the eu should not interfere in this.
today you are going to talk about the european summit which is to take place this week and tax evasion, among other things. but the real news, of course, is last week's eurovision. and i am not talking about the eurovision song contest, but the eurovision of french president hollande. well, vision, more like passing the buck to others where he fails in his own country. we have been told less than a week ago that the dutch taxpayer must cough up another 350 million because brussels itself refuses to cut back. and now this again: a government of its own for the eurozone, with a full-time president, a budget and common debts, a political union. the european commission is overjoyed. they don't have to pay the bill, because the dutch taxpayer does that for them. as usual, they're watching our money. the vvd will cry crocodile tears on stage, but they'll write the cheque anyway. and burden-sharing here and tax increases there, and voilà, you're done! that european superstate must and will come into being. the citizens of the netherlands are being completely exploited, the country is being savaged to the utmost in order to push through political union at all costs, while it is well known that the citizens do not want this and are opposed to it. let us free the citizen from the stranglehold of the european union and organise a referendum.
the european parliament has done a good job. there's a report full of recommendations. i do miss the principle that you pay tax where you have the activities that have led to profit, but the report is full of concrete proposals. the commissioner is also prepared to act. the european council, i have much less confidence in it so far, because i find it vague. information exchange is fine, but that's not going to get us that trillion. i therefore call on the heads of government to make the following points concrete in their action list: 1. scrutiny of all tax treaties, both between member states and with third countries. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the second. if money is funneled to third countries, member states must levy a levy so that the overall tax burden is at least 25%. the third. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax base is not voluntary, but harmonised so that all member states have the same base and can decide on a minimum rate of at least 25%. 4. other reporting by country of companies on turnover, profits and deferred tax. even the tax inspectors are in revolt at this moment. they've organized a week of action in june. all over europe you see the population mobilizing. the european council must act now or lose its credibility.
finally, the council will also be discussing the revenue side of the euro crisis tomorrow. we have been talking for years about public spending and that something must be done about it to solve the crisis. while we're doing that, the government's revenue is going down. for example, the average corporate tax rate in the eu has fallen to an average of 23%. in 2000, it was well over 30%. that is less revenue which then has to be corrected on the expenditure side. as long as the council thinks it can solve the euro crisis by spending alone, it is choosing a non-solidarity and unfair approach. because the ones who can evade taxes are the rich, the rich who can pay the kpmg to be able to pick all the routes. these are the companies that are now only paying 0.05% of the price, apple for example, as we read this morning in the financial times. that is the problem and the council must now really start talking about lifting the veto in tax matters, otherwise we cannot solve the euro crisis.
we are seeing cuts all over europe at the moment. it is the word of the day and the european union itself is not exempt from it. it is therefore unacceptable that tax fraud can still be carried out on a large scale in europe. what is worse is that some countries facilitate this by still maintaining banking secrecy. that is one of the first things that should be addressed. we must have uniform rules on this throughout the european union, with information being exchanged. the proposals contained in the reports on which we are about to vote can generally be supported. they are encouraging progress. i think that special attention should be paid to vat fraud. it is an important source of income for the member states themselves, but it is also an important source of income for the european union. the system will have to be reformed to ensure that it is transparent and applied fairly in all countries.
mr president, alde, like the other groups, fully supports the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. however, policies must be adopted in a transparent and democratic way, and the urgency of the matter does not really justify bringing in policies by the back door. there should be no policy laundering. a lot has been said about the foreign account tax compliance act (fatca), and everybody says we welcome fatca. but fatca is a us law that is applied directly on eu territory. i ask this house: if it were not a us law but a chinese or a russian law or a law of any other country, would we also welcome the fact that it is being applied here? the eu needs to have the courage to make its own policies and set its own standards. we have been unable to do so for many years, and we should not need the americans to adopt our laws. finally, i say to the european commission that i asked for access to the fatca documents a year ago and have still not had a reply. all i get from the european commission are delays and an offer to discuss the matter over coffee. i do not want to have a chat over coffee with the commissioner, not to discuss access to documents at any rate. i want a reply. if i do not get a reply i will be obliged to go to court yet again.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. when will we have a genuine single energy market in europe, with a genuine level playing field, as we want in the other sectors? that means: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. at present, the energy market is far too much nationally controlled, too diffuse and too little transparent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. and, more importantly, what is the council going to do about it? because if there is one area of competence that the eu should have, it is energy. i think there is too much emphasis on capacity building, which i think is very 20th century. more flexibility, that's an old reflex. and i would like to know what you mean by a particular sentence where you say that measures to combat .... (the president declared the minutes closed) )
in writing. the report also calls for the introduction of a european social security system for all citizens. the rapporteur, however, wants to allocate several tasks to the european commission and to allocate financial resources to eu policies, which weakens this position. for this reason, the pvv cannot vote for the proposal.
in fact, we can say that five years after lehmann brothers we still have the problem of weak banks in the euro zone, in the whole eu. in that sense, we have achieved little in five years and you have to say that this step, a european supervisor, is incredibly important. it is an incredibly important step that we are now finally working together to have one supervisor for the banks in europe. so important, in fact, that democratic control cannot be underestimated. i have the feeling that this is being treated very lightly, particularly by the ecb. yes, you have to separate the monetary task of the ecb from the supervisory task. but democratic control of this supervisory task is crucial and i am very pleased that in the negotiations my colleague, mr giegold, has also enforced a number of very important aspects for the parliaments, such as the right of inquiry for the european parliament and for the national parliaments that they can also call the supervisor to account. but there are still good agreements to be made with the ecb and in those negotiations i really wonder whether the ecb really thinks that their tasks, those supervisory tasks, should be subject to democratic control. i also have a question for the irish presidency, because they have just said that they had the idea that a number of countries outside the eurozone would already be joining that monitoring mechanism. i would like to hear from the irish presidency which countries are already considering this, because that is not very clear to us yet. the important point is that the banking union is not finished. a bank supervisor may see problems, but it has not broken the deadly embrace between governments and banks. we need to move towards a common resolution fund, but also towards a european deposit guarantee scheme. mr schoible said in the financial times that we should not be too optimistic. we must be careful that this is not used as an excuse to avoid taking the steps which are absolutely necessary in the completion of the banking union.
the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the present proposal is therefore contrary to article 282 of the treaty, because it affects the independence of the european central bank. parliament is now aggravating this situation by saying that the ecb is accountable to this european parliament. this is yet another example of the violation of the treaty, and thus of the rights of citizens and of the member states, under the guise of the crisis. so this proposal must be dropped, because how can we vote on a proposal which is contrary to the treaty? nor does anyone believe that centralising incompetent national supervisors will improve quality. this is only a preliminary step towards recapitalising the banks through the esm. this proposal is just another ransom note to save the euro.
i would like to thank our rapporteurs, marianne thyssen and sven giegold, and also commissioner barnier for the important work they have done to bring this agreement about. an agreement on ecb banking supervision is an important step towards the banking union. the european central bank will be the new direct supervisor of the major banks in the euro area from 2014. this should help to restore confidence in our banks. restoring the free movement of capital. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial system is in a position to meet the needs of the world economy. that's crucial to economic recovery. it is therefore necessary to clarify this as soon as possible. the banking union is in the pipeline, but the building is not yet finished. last night we voted in the econ committee by a large majority for a clear approach to crisis management: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's financial system is not undermined by the failure of the european central bank to provide the necessary guarantees for the protection of depositors under 100 000 euros, and it must be clear throughout europe that investors and ultimately depositors over 100 000 euros are the ones who have to pay when a bank is in trouble, not the taxpayer. we want a credible and a robust banking union. too often, member states are on the brakes. they want european supervision and european crisis management in words, but in deeds they are calling for flexibility and more powers for national supervisors. we risk eroding the banking union. there is still uncertainty about whether our banks in europe are still healthy and which banks are weak. the president of the eurogroup, jeroen dijsselbloem, recently spoke in this house about a study on the quality of bank balance sheets, the portfolios that banks have in terms of loans and government bonds. this examination should take place prior to the start of the ecb. but when will that investigation take place? who will be running the tests and who will decide whether to recapitalise? is that the ecb, the national supervisors, the eurogroup?
today we are talking about a banking union and european financial supervision in the wake of the debt and banking crisis. but unfortunately it will not be limited to banking supervision, given the building blocks for a genuine monetary and economic union proposed by president-in-office of the council, mr van rompuy. last week french president hollande spoke of a future european economic government. there's a disturbing kernel of truth in that. i understand that money is needed to stabilize banks. but is not the emergency fund the appropriate instrument? the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. this undermines the budgetary rights of national parliaments. the banking union is not the solution to the lack of competitiveness within the european union. i would like to hear from the council whether the use of the exchange rate mechanism is not a better guarantee of a lasting solution. it is to be feared that we are again on a dead end road, another step towards an economic government that europe can well afford to miss.
the current crisis is partly caused by the banks and there are certainly questions about national supervision of the banks. take my country: the netherlands. several large system banks were nationalised. has the monitoring been sufficient? that is the question. another large bank, dsb, quickly went under. with effective supervision, it would probably not have been so, and certainly not so extensive. it is therefore reasonable that the ecb should become the new supervisor and that this supervisory task should require democratic control. this is in contrast to the other task of the ecb, monetary policy. it is crucial that the ecb clearly separates these two tasks. at the same time, the democratic legitimacy of european banking supervision is also its weakness. how can we prevent certain banks from being subject to less or different supervision, especially when they have enough political friends in the various european institutions? who can guarantee that european banking supervision will function better than the present national systems? that is the dilemma, and that is why i support this proposal with a grinding of my teeth. with this tightened ecb supervision, the european banking union is over for me. a european resolution mechanism for the resolution of failed banks and a european deposit guarantee scheme are undesirable, both in substance and in political terms. because if we start wiping out all the debts in one big pile again, then even more people will be voting against when it comes to europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report. we can all make that list. but we must not only measure the state of the union by the economic crisis and the situation on the markets in europe, but also by the fact that a lot of the debates in europe on ethics, on the rights of citizens, on the accused and on refugees are silent in the council. this parliament has been preparing for years for what is coming soon, namely votes on the common asylum and migration policy. but the council is fighting each other and is incapable of solidarity among member states. the stockholm programme was a precursor to the lisbon treaty. in future we must not set up such large programmes, but we must realise that we must make well-balanced legislation, with a view to fundamental rights and not just criminal law. an intergovernmental system as one big holistic programme, developed piece by piece, is now becoming obsolete. we cannot go any further on this road as long as there is disagreement in the council. i would like to mention as a most striking example the principle of mutual trust in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. the european arrest warrant, which leads to the transfer of citizens from one country to another without proper legal assistance, is typical. we cannot continue to cooperate in the field of justice if we do so in a way that actually reflects mutual distrust. if the council has an answer to what the future should be in terms of this mutual distrust, i would like to hear it.
i ask what is really good about the stockholm programme. the programme opposes the border controls that member states want to be able to carry out to deter criminals. the programme accepts the impossibility of defending oneself against a european arrest warrant and that has already led to years of unjust detention of many citizens in foreign cells. the programme aims at european criminal law, which undermines the sovereignty of member states. and the common asylum policy has not led to a reduction or a dispersal of immigrants, but only to a concentration of them in a few member states. in all this, this programme is not serving the public, on the contrary. the central question must be whether the people are actually served by the stockholm programme and my answer is no. the stockholm programme is a failure. it must be terminated and no new programme must be created.
we had a debate earlier this evening on the stockholm programme, on cooperation in europe in the field of freedom, security and justice. we also discussed how the public perceives europe. we must also discuss this here. how is it possible that the european commission, in cooperation with the shadow rapporteur of the ppe group, keeps saying that secrecy is paramount and that we want to make bits and pieces of it public? the basic principle of democracy should be that everything is open, unless it is absolutely necessary for reasons of public health or social unrest. and that's not the case here. the commission's principle is always 'keep it secret, keep it secret, keep it secret'. and i have to admit that our rapporteur is right, and that leads to mistrust. the european citizens' distrust of the work of the european commission, and also of this parliament and the council, is already quite high. that would not be necessary if we simply show what we do and want to make our documents public. there are a lot of member states that have very good practices in this area. i call denmark, i call my own country holland. the european commission would do well to follow that example. the european parliament has been pulling a dead horse for some years now, as we call it in the netherlands, and that is a pity. it shows that you don't really trust us, or our citizens.
mr president, i would like to congratulate ms sommer, who just did the most perfect impersonation of sir humphrey from the ‘yes, prime minister’ series that i have ever seen in my life. i cannot believe that i have heard someone say in this hemicycle: ‘well, we should not give too much information to the citizens because they would only get confused’. i mean, come on, that is something from a farce on television. it cannot be real, not in this house, because the eu, ms sommer – who has disappeared – is no longer the old project of diplomats where the culture of this question of secrecy prevails. it is rapidly evolving into a mature political union of citizens, and the citizens, ms sommer and dear commissioner, are clamouring for transparency, because transparency is essential for accountability, which in turn is indispensable for a mature democracy. we talk a lot, the commission talks a lot, the council talks a lot – i can see that the commissioner is fascinated (not) – the commission talks a lot about getting the trust – mr president, maybe you could point out to the commissioner that we are having a debate here. we are actually addressing the commission here... (the chair interrupts the speaker in order to gain the attention of the commissioner)...if you care to hear. we talk – the commission talks – a lot about winning the trust of the citizens, yet there is no culture of transparency in the commission. i can testify to that, because i actually took the commission to court in a case where they refused access to documents. i took the council to court and i am very ready to take the commission to court again, and i am pretty sure that this will happen. if i do not do so, dear commissioner, the citizens will do it themselves. have you ever heard of wikileaks? have you ever heard of acta? if you want a demonstration of how secrecy will actually sink your own plans, acta is perfect. i think it is regrettable that the commission and the council take a minimalist approach to transparency and disclose as little as they can possibly get away with. so, commissioner, do everything in your power to unblock this dossier.
blue-card question. – first of all, to eliminate one misunderstanding: i did not say that wikileaks should stand in place of the transparency regulation; i just said that citizens take it into their own hands. i very much subscribe to your statement just now, and i think other colleagues do too, but it rather contradicts the statement that was made by ms sommer just before. i think it would be very useful if we knew what the position of the epp group will be in the end. i hope it will be yours.
"blue card" question. what is it? is it not a great shame that mr eppink compares commissioner rehn with brezhnev? because isn't it colleague eppink who has also actively supported the six-pack? what about the independent role that commissioner rehn now has? and is it not important, now, two weeks before the country-specific recommendations come out, to give full support to commissioner rehn, to come out with very firmly defined recommendations not only for small countries but also for large countries like france? isn't that more important right now? i'm curious to see your reaction.
the plans for the enlargement and deepening of economic and monetary union give the european commission even more power. the plans for national economic reforms must now be approved by the european commission before they can be sent to their own national parliament, and this is another attack on national sovereignty. since the european commission has the right to reject any legislative proposal, this prior approval deprives national parliaments of the right to debate and vote on any legislative proposal sent to them by their own government. no one should be happy about this proposal to strip national parliaments of their powers. we must make ourselves stronger for national representations. how can we accept the disappearance of democracy, which has been fought for for so long in so many countries? the call for greater democracy is heard regularly in this parliament and we have the opportunity to do so again. let us strengthen democracy and reject these committee proposals. this total union is not in the interests of the citizen. the eurozone is the only one in the world that is unable to climb out of the economic valley, because monetary union in its present form is not working. the eurozone must therefore be dismantled and national sovereignty strengthened, so that the member states are again responsible for ensuring prosperity for their own citizens. we do not need more, but less central power. if we do not reject these proposals, the european parliament will show that we are not seeking prosperity but only the centralization of power.
on 7 may, commissioner andor gave an encouraging speech on what we have to do. we need more solidarity, he said, and he quoted habermas: "you help someone because you have a future together". i agree with him. we have now spent three years on more budgetary discipline and more economic agreements. solidarity has been largely forgotten. i welcome the plans for a fiscal shock absorber, for example in the form of an unemployment fund. but the council should start now, not in the long term. i am glad that the commission is finally recognising that we must not only correct the economic imbalances but also the social imbalances. it is a great pity that the commission has been blind to this when drawing up the six-pack. the scoreboard in the six-pack touches on all sorts of social issues: the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation. but the way member states are now evaluated means that economic reforms are mainly about competition, wages and working conditions. that increases social inequality rather than reducing it. i am afraid that two separate processes are now emerging. one for economic imbalances, with tough legislation and tough sanctions, on which member states will actually base their policies. and then there's one for social imbalances with some nice benchmarks that are butter-smooth, sort of an open method of coordination 2.0 that nobody's going to care about. i would like to hear what the commission's plans are. will the social leg be merely a symbolic exercise or will the commission work with parliament on a new integrated socioeconomic scoreboard which does have an eye to combating inequality, poverty and unemployment?
in writing. − i voted in favour of the gáll-pelcz report on the annual tax report, in particular because of the parts included on fighting tax fraud and tax evasion. however, i strongly oppose new own resources for the european commission, which will only cause this institution to become less controllable. i also strongly oppose the call for a ccctb in the form of a 29th regime, which will not solve the problems we see today with corporations avoiding corporate taxes.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the commissioner mentioned in his introduction that he was here on behalf of the high representative, ms ashton. mr commissioner, could you tell us whether she is now at the friends of syria meeting that is taking place in jordan and, if she is not there, why not, and whether she has attended these meetings before? i agree with colleagues that the eu must be much more involved in finding a solution to the violence and the humanitarian crisis in and around syria, because for over two years we have witnessed how syrians have been murdered in the most brutal way. the conflict is rapidly becoming increasingly radicalised and the syrian people are being crushed; a regional disaster is looming. the corpses of boys and men were revealed by the receding waters of a river, hands tied behind their backs, bullet holes in their skulls. children seek shelter in the arms of their mothers to no avail; there are at least 80 000 people dead, and most of them are civilians. of course people are fleeing this horrible violence, and enough is enough, but beyond the death and destruction a humanitarian crisis of unprecedented magnitude is unfolding. there are now seven million syrians who rely on aid, around four and half million are displaced in the country and the number of refugees is expected to rise to three and a half million in the next month. four and a half thousand cross the border to lebanon every day. these people are mostly women and children. they need basic help: food, water, shelter, medicine. girls and women are especially vulnerable. we receive horrific reports of rape, and also of the selling or marrying-off of girls far too young to marry. these girls and women need specific aid. the eu needs a long-term plan, and we must prepare to free up a lot more in emergency aid. the un will ask for no less than usd three billion to cover the needs only for this year. i believe the external action service needs to develop a roadmap for political governance in the liberated areas that includes the possibility of lifting economic sanctions, and we need to seek a un security council mandate that allows for the delivery of humanitarian aid. the assad government is using access to aid as a weapon against its people, even though that is against international law. let us also pressure russia to be more constructive and stop delivering arms, and let us make sure that countries which promise aid do also transfer the money.
we have now heard from you, commissioner, and from my colleagues, a good description of the situation. we all know how badly it is in jordan, syria and lebanon. i was myself on the jordanian-syrian border two months ago, at a refugee camp. a refugee camp so big it's become the fourth largest city in jordan. i wholeheartedly support the pleas here to continue funding unhcr. i would also like to add that unrwa, which is taking in palestinians who are fleeing for the second or third time, should not be forgotten. but the situation in jordan, lebanon and turkey with refugees on the run does not exempt us from reflecting on what this means for the european union. i was very shocked yesterday when we were negotiating the resolution of this parliament on the situation of refugees that we were not allowed to include texts on our responsibility. there are countries in the european union - and i would like to embrace them - that are now directly inviting refugees from syria. there are also countries in the european union that still lock up syrian refugees for long periods of time and still threaten to deport them. we should name it and be ashamed of it. greece is one of those countries, and it is not enough to say that the country is in crisis. there are signals from unhcr that boats with syrians are being pushed back into turkish waters. in the meantime, the european union has a fund to help them resettle refugees in major crisis operations. but that fund was not even used for the situation in libya! when will we be able to use that fund? is it not time to take responsibility for the syrians who are already in europe (who should not be in detention, who should be helped) and also for the refugees who have no place in lebanon and jordan, for example because they are palestinians or because their political situation is too complicated?
"blue card" is the answer. it is always nice to be able to talk a little further about this very problematic case. the representative of the unhcr in greece, in athens, informed me a few days ago that he was receiving signals from refugees who were unable to reach greece and that syrians seeking asylum in greece were also being put in prison for 12 months in the first instance, precisely because they were seeking asylum. that does not seem to me to be the right course of action at the moment. you might say: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
for the epp group commissioner, before i focus on the plight of the syrian refugees, i would ask you to make an urgent effort to secure the release of four syrian churchmen who have been kidnapped. i'll give you their names in a moment. i was just talking to a syrian acquaintance and friend of mine, and he said that the horrible rumor was going around that one of them had already been crucified by chechen jihadists. i would like to know, commissioner, what your views are on three distressing aspects of the gigantic syrian refugee problem in neighbouring countries: i call them: - the infiltration and influence of the warring parties in the camps (i am thinking of recruitment, but also of extrajudicial executions, in jordan for example); - the vulnerability of adult women, but also of underage girls, to the physical exploitation of their immense suffering (survival sex is even mentioned, a horrible word); - the systematic discrimination - also documented - against syrian refugees of palestinian origin. the commissioner will no doubt be familiar with these three concrete examples of the profound suffering of syrian refugees. but how is it possible that these abuses took place in the camps and are taking place under the watchful eye of the international community? what is the eu's role in this?
first, a technical point: i am not speaking on behalf of the non-attached members, i am one of the non-attached members. there are no winners in a civil war. it is not a national one, and in the case of syria, it is not an international one. it is difficult to say which of the warring parties that will ultimately prevail will prove to be the most reliable. stability in the region, where the jewish state of israel is threatened on all sides by regimes bent on its destruction, is of vital importance to all actors. on the one hand, there are the opposition forces, who claim to be fighting an iranian-backed jihad, and on the other hand, the assad government, which is now being fanatically supported by the hezbollah terrorists. today the german foreign ministry announced that it wants hezbollah on the european union's terror list in the wake of the horrific terrorist attack in burgas, bulgaria. the inclusion on the eu terrorist list comes much too late, but better late than never! how does the european commission view this german proposal? i'd like a response.
the syrian civil war is taking apocalyptic forms. it's not just a battle between assad and the opposition anymore. violence is increasingly perpetrated along sectarian lines, leaving vulnerable groups virtually helpless because they receive no foreign support or financial resources. christians in particular are among that vulnerable group. in fact, you can already see that there is a kind of "axe day" coming, where vulnerable groups are killed and driven out of revenge or frustration. we've also heard about rapes that are taking place. in fact, you're seeing the same thing happening as what's already happened to christians in iraq. that is why i ask mr fühle: 1. what will you do to protect the most vulnerable groups in syria? 2. how will you get all the aid to the victims in areas controlled by assad and the opposition? we must do everything we can to prevent the conflict from degenerating into sectarian slaughter. i'd like to hear your answers.
we are faced with a terrible tragedy in this debate on syria. an international community that is not only hesitant but also internally divided to the bone. a european union which plays no role, partly because it is divided. and the citizen is the victim and is becoming more and more the victim, because summer is coming once again. commissioner fühle says: we'll raise more money. the un is providing more money. but first, a resolution must be passed. political solutions must be found in any case. let us look at what commissioner fühle just said: "we support the lavrov and kerry conference". but has this conference produced any results? the russians just delivered a very sophisticated missile. where are they in this process? assad won't play. the opposition doesn't see it either. and we support that! that's not the solution i'm looking for. let me say a word about the sanctions. the sanctions are due to expire on 1 june. and the british want to supply weapons. how are you gonna put that together? what is the role of the european union? and one last question: if there were weapons to be delivered, who would you do that to? i've already asked you to take an inventory of those in the opposition you'd like to support. we have not received them yet. the european union must try to do something about it, because we can no longer stand by.
madam president, the resolution we will vote on tomorrow will not be the first or the last. since the beginning of the syrian conflict we have had 16 council conclusions, three un security council resolutions, the report of the independent international commission and countless statements by high representative ashton and commissioner georgieva. the syrian conflict created 1.5 million refugees: 350 000 in turkey, 470 000 in each of lebanon and jordan, and 146 000 in iraq. but we are not talking about numbers: we are talking about human beings – human beings caught up in a bloody conflict in their country, who had to leave everything behind in order to seek safety in other countries. they are the families who are being attacked by the locals in turkey following the bomb attacks in reyhanli; they are the women and girls who are victims of sexual violence in refugee camps in jordan. we in europe have been unable to end the syrian conflict, but i am convinced the member states can certainly do a lot more for the refugees. in the end they are not numbers: they are human beings.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, deadline after deadline was missed. the leaders of bosnia and herzegovina had to come up with a credible effort. so far they have failed incredibly. in the eu we cannot call elections fair and free where not all citizens have equal rights of representation. that is the minimum retirement of democracy and a basic civic right. that is why the implementation of the sejdić-finci ruling is key. years ago when i visited bosnia and herzegovina i spoke with the person belonging to the so-called ‘others’. i remember the hope when he was saying that one day he might be able to become president of his country. colleagues, i cannot support the call to suspend bosnia and herzegovina from the council of europe. where would mr sejdić and mr finci have gone to enforce their rights otherwise? i do not want cut-away justice for the other citizens of bosnia and herzegovina. bosnia and herzegovina stand still but other countries do not. croatia will soon enter the eu. this is going to have big consequences for bosnia and herzegovina. the eu border between croatia and bosnia must connect, not divide. bosnia and herzegovina needs to get its act together before croatia enters the eu. the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina are the ones suffering because of unemployment and the lack of enforcement of their rights. 80% of the population wants to be part of the eu. they want their rights safeguarded. this transcends ethnic lines. now we are clearly in a deadlock. bosnia is not moving, the commission is not moving. in the meantime the region is moving. the negative advice not to let bosnian citizens travel with id cards to croatia is already seen as a punishment in bosnia and herzegovina. is that the case? we have a responsibility to the western balkans. developments in bosnia and herzegovina affects the region as a whole. how can we then ensure the sustainability and stability of the region? if there is a will there is surely a way.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, since yesterday we have had some intense debate about whether to take stronger measures against the leadership of bosnia and herzegovina for missing deadline after deadline for the real constitutional reform that the country badly needs. ms pack proposes asking the council of europe to consider suspending membership of bih and asking the commission to consider freezing the interim agreement and ipa funding. i do not think we should ever consider freezing ipa funding because that will hurt the citizens far more than the leadership, so we are asking for a split vote on that. but i do think we need far more urgency on the part of the bosnian leadership. they must face the consequences of their complete inaction. the only thing they need to do is to agree among themselves in order to prevent any of this. it is in their hands. we definitely also need far more urgency on the part of the international community. if freezing membership and the agreement is pending, then no country will any longer be free to pretend that on the whole things are fine, with just some minor mishaps to resolve. things are very much not fine in bosnia and herzegovina. both bosnian and international leaders need to get far more of a sense of urgency: to stop turning a blind eye and to start doing what is really necessary for the citizens of bosnia. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer. – i think the people of bosnia and herzegovina are european people. they belong, and ought to be, in the eu at a certain point. their progress is our progress. so all the money spent for their progress, for their infrastructure, for their social progress, for their employment, for eradicating poverty there will, in the end, come to be for the good of everybody.
for the epp group on 7 may i received from your foreign office a number of answers to written questions concerning the activities of iran and of wahhabi and salafist groups in bosnian territory. exactly one week later, on 14 may, however, the bosnian government expelled two prominent members of the iranian embassy in sarajevo, the second and third secretaries, for espionage activities and contacts with mujahideen camps in the country. photos in the local press captured the dishonourable departure of the unmasked diplomats. i expect you and the external service to give serious answers to serious questions. i therefore venture a second attempt: do you consider the process of european integration in bosnia compatible with close contacts and cooperation between the political and religious establishment in sarajevo and the islamic republic of iran? do you, in accordance with your service, consider the presence of wahhabi communities on bosnian territory to be a security risk to the country and the region, even though these groups wish to live strictly according to their own religious principles and totally disregard the laws of the country?
blue-card question. – lord dartmouth, in your speech it sounded as though bih was going to become a member of the eu tomorrow. this is very much not the case. there is an accession process which requires reforms from bih with regard to human rights, the rule of law, economic progress and competition and becoming part of the single market. do you not want that for the citizens of bih? do you want to take that prospect of proper reform away from them? does your sense of ‘love thy neighbour’ really only stretch to british citizens and not to those living elsewhere in europe?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i will address mrs creighton: we have now heard from mr howitt, mr posselt, mr kukan and ms nicolai, and i gladly join them. it is really high time that negotiations were opened. do tell all your colleagues next time you see them – and i mean all of them. the name issue must be either removed from the enlargement process or it must be resolved post-haste. last year greece offered a name with a geographical mention, while allowing macedonian as an adjective. let us all admit that this is really the only possible solution and let us call for this offer to be taken up. meanwhile, macedonia has a lot to do internally. i am very glad the opposition and the coalition have come to an agreement, but parliamentary procedures obviously badly need revision. a lot of work also needs to be done on human rights, such as freedom of the press and lgbt rights. i think the authorities need to act very quickly now that the june pride has been cancelled by the organisers because they felt too threatened. i hope something may be done to have a successful pride soon.
blue-card question. – there is nothing that says that a name issue needs to be resolved before accession negotiations are opened. i feel that it is not wise to get into a conflict in the eu at the last moment, so this is why the report states that the name issue should be resolved before the final decision on accession. however, that is a long time from now, and at present you are just stopping reforms that are badly needed. you are stopping a process that is really good for macedonian citizens and in general. what is your reaction?
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, this perspective and the ambition to break down barriers that remain in the trade and investment flows between the world’s largest trading blocks is historic. besides the opportunity to create jobs and economic growth – and all this without governments needing to invest – the scope is wide and ambitious in an unprecedented way. the road ahead will be long and rocky, but the goals of setting common standards and boosting competitiveness together in a rapidly changing world are persuasive. the liberal group supports a green light to start negotiations on a comprehensive agreement. we do not need any red lines now. but let there be no confusion. a green light for the mandate is not a carte blanche for the negotiators. this parliament has a key role to play, and we expect to be closely involved: to represent all interests, those of consumers, citizens, small and medium-sized enterprises, businesses and civil society. stakeholders are eager to be involved, to share their hopes and concerns. i would say to the commissioner that it is essential to ensure that benefits are not only measured in spreadsheets and studies, not only for shareholders or in boardrooms. the transatlantic trade and investment partnership should lead to a win-win situation, to fewer bureaucratic burdens, and to high standards of fundamental rights, environmental standards and consumer protection. this should be an agreement for and by people, and macroeconomic figures alone are not enough to gather political support. we – and you, commissioner – must do all you can to gain trust in the process. transparency is essential, and while we share concerns over the gap between, for example, the federal level and the state level on the american side, and over the independence of regulators and how that should figure in the negotiations on our side, we must also guard against being too fragmented. let us work together to ensure that local communities, specific sectors and constituencies can share their concerns and hopes, but that we also keep in mind the bigger picture and the ambitions that we share. let us make sure that the bigger picture trickles down and translates to the individual level. i believe we have an opportunity which we must take. but we cannot be naive about the challenges of making it all work in a world that is rapidly changing in the meantime.
the potential free trade agreement between the european union and the united states is already being talked about in superlatives, and i also believe that an ambitious agreement can certainly have positive effects in all sorts of areas. i would like to draw particular attention to the opportunities for the maritime sector when the restrictive american jones act is brought to the table. but i also want to make a few comments. european smes are already involved in a wide variety of bilateral trade agreements. the so-called spaghetti bowl effect does not make international trade any clearer. furthermore, an agreement between two players of this size could seriously undermine the meaning of the wto. the eu must continue to commit itself to the completion of doha.
it is very good to have this debate here this morning because there seems to be a kind of tension in this resolution which i think can be removed. the point is that you're providing an opportunity to develop from the bottom up. there's so much quality in the alpine region. i was in singapore recently and the development is going very fast there. i said: "when you look at the world, what do you find most beautiful?" and then they said, the alps! look at austria, look at switzerland. we have a unique quality and we have to deal with it in a unique way, so we must focus policy on it and build on it. however, with the apparent contradiction in article 5, it seems as if the european commission is being asked to prepare such a strategy, even though it is said that this should be limited to a certain area of that convention. that's not the case. that is the challenge facing the commission: i think that the commission should be able to take a step back and to put forward a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. that is why it is better to take out that article, which has been repeatedly mentioned this morning, and ask the european commission to submit a proposal to that effect, so that we can solve the problems. we must not therefore adopt existing instruments as a dogma, but rather take as a starting point the problem we wish to solve. so it may be wise to remove article 5 and thus remove this apparent contradiction. finally, it is good to tackle this policy together now. we have had good experience in bringing together and facilitating issues which concern a territory larger than the member states, a territory larger than the region. as mr vlasák has already said, it is budgetary neutral in principle. there are so many instruments in regional policy. there has been a separate mountain farmer scheme in rural development for many years. we have instruments, but perhaps we should coordinate them better and facilitate the regions in this respect. so the thinking behind this is: not new structures, but to build on what already exists as much as possible, but to do it in a better way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that the commission will come forward with a policy document soon so that we can discuss the substance further. (the president agreed to answer a 'blue card' question in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
"blue card" is the answer. thank you for asking. it is very important to look at what article 5 says and what the problem is. the question is very simple: how big do you take the territory? how large is the area concerned? it would be wrong at this stage to limit it to the parties to that convention. it should be possible to take into account a larger territory. there's been a lot of debate about that. it is not a question of substance, but of the geographical limitation we are already setting. we don't think that's right. let us, above all, adopt an open approach so that we can have all the instruments that are necessary to achieve the things you are proposing.
president. - the next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: the country has shown in recent times that it is serious about democratic reforms and could well use this support. i would like to make a comment on tariff preferences in general and on the reciprocity of these preferences in particular. i understand the idea behind the one-sidedness of the benefits, but we are of course also shortchanging ourselves. i would therefore like to call for the non-reciprocity of these tariff preferences to be abolished. a stronger presence in emerging markets would be good for european companies.
the fact that rabies has been virtually eradicated in companion animals does not mean that we should not be vigilant. the problem of stray dogs in the eastern member states in particular is still a major problem. these animals often still have rabies and other diseases. governments in those member states sometimes use cruel means to exterminate these animals. because that 's the way it is . i'm going to kill you. we must continue to call on the eastern european countries to stop these atrocious practices and ensure that they deal properly with these stray dogs. this means that they are caught in an animal-friendly manner, treated for their diseases and castrated or sterilized. it is important that we do not forget these animals when we are adapting this directive.
the introduction of dogs and cats from other member states is a growing phenomenon. my own parents once brought a kitten back from a holiday in spain, a very sweet little thing. however, there are major risks associated with these imports. in some eastern european member states dogs are being bred on a large scale for sale in western european countries. the problem is often the rarer varieties. breeding these dogs is a big business, but it is also a worrying one. accumulating as much money as possible is more important than the health of the dogs. vaccinations against diseases are rare and are kept in appalling conditions. this often leads to the detection of diseases, sometimes long after arrival in the other member state, which can lead to the death of the animal. i would therefore like to call on all member states to be vigilant and to intervene where necessary.
the euro is a ticking time bomb. there is hardly any economist left who believes in the future of the euro. the eu could have sent a strong signal to the financial markets by expelling greece from the eurozone as a great example of how to protect the euro. it would have indicated that fraud and corruption within the eurozone would be punished rather than rewarded, as has now happened. the european monetary union does not need all sorts of new regulations, but mainly requires that lying and deceitful member states be thrown out of the eurozone immediately. that is better for the other countries in the euro zone and for those countries themselves.
in syria, there are no winners, only losers. syria has become a battleground for the assad government and hezbollah on the one hand and for muslim jihadists on the other, who, if they come to power, will pose a great danger to the state of israel. in the meantime, of course, the wait-and-see attitude of the international community is quite shocking. obama clearly set a boundary where he would act. but when that limit was reached - and i'm referring, of course, to the sarin attacks - obama didn't give up. the leadership role which the arab league or the oic, the organisation of islamic conference, should have assumed here is totally unrecognizable. the arab spring is turning into a pitch-black arab winter where no one wins. what europe should do now, at any rate, is to put hezbollah on the eu's terror list immediately.
i apologize for monopolizing these explanations of vote. the fact that the financial resources of former dictators should be returned to the countries of the so-called arab spring is beyond question. but this report says that it cannot happen yet, and i wholeheartedly agree with that. the countries must first prove that they have become the true democracies they were promised. but in some ways this is a hypocritical attitude on the part of the european union. on the one hand, we give our own money to the arab countries free of charge, to egypt even 5 billion, but we hold their own money as a means of pressure. the logic of this is completely beyond me. if it were up to me, money would not go to these sham democracies, which are becoming more salafist day by day, a very big concern for stability in the middle east.
apart from the fact that my party is in favour of abolishing the european union and therefore also strongly opposed to future accessions of new countries to the union, i am also keen to look at accession negotiations in a factual way. this resolution is full of issues on which bosnia is so far behind that serious negotiations cannot even be envisaged. that is a very good sign, since resolutions of this kind are usually accompanied by praise and mild criticism. it is much better to stop the accession negotiations with bosnia immediately and let them get their own country in order first, before the european union has to seriously consider resuming talks with the bosnians.
it is quite right that the european council still refuses to negotiate accession with macedonia, not so much because of the dispute with greece over the country's name, but because my party does not want to negotiate accession with any country, as i have just said. it is also clear that a country which prefers to erect statues and other mega-projects to good domestic policy is far from ready for negotiations. i would like to say, however, that i think it is a good thing that greece is reaching out to macedonia to help it to come to terms with the situation. i hope these countries will come out of it soon, because it is, of course, an interstate conflict that is not worth the trouble.
the united states is europe's most important trading partner and has been our greatest friend for centuries. the united states has saved europe from fire many times when we had made a mess of it again. good trade and friendly relations are therefore crucial for all european states. a few days ago, the united states was rocked by terrible tornadoes in oklahoma. when the netherlands suffered a huge water crisis 60 years ago this year, the americans and others were directly present to provide aid on a large scale. where is the european aid now? my proposal is therefore to forgo the promised five billion to the salafist state of egypt and donate it to the authorities in oklahoma. egypt is not a friend of the free west, which the united states is definitely not.
as i said earlier in the martin report, it is a good thing that the blockade of tariff preferences for burma is being lifted. the country has shown in recent times that it is serious about democratic reforms and can therefore use this support. i would like to make a comment on tariff preferences in general and on the reciprocity of these preferences in particular. i understand the idea behind the one-sidedness of the benefits, but we are of course also failing ourselves. i therefore call for the non-reciprocity of these tariff preferences to be abolished. i believe that the removal of all trade barriers would be in the best interests of all the poor countries in the world and of the eu as well. we no longer need development aid, because we simply trade fairly with each other.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president. despite all the hundreds of amendments, there is at least one report that is worth reading, and that is important, not only for italy but for the whole of europe. i agree with mr kirkhope when he says that the final report must be short and forceful. otherwise the commission can take some things out again - as we have just heard in the case of commissioner malmström's corruption - and just ignore other things. we can't let that happen. criminal law is a sensitive subject. it is a question of the right of the individual to be protected by the law, and it is a question of the right of the individual to be protected by the law. the criminal law not only serves to reassure society but is also a means of helping criminals to reintegrate into society after their sentencing. the recidivism rate is way too high. it is important for society and for the perpetrators that we do not lose sight of this. i hope therefore that the final report will pay more attention to prevention and rehabilitation. i have advised my group to abstain on this report. this is particularly true of the fact that the report sometimes fails, for example where it proposes to deprive certain crimes of the right to vote by absentia. instead of an individual test before the courts, the report calls for the automatic and even permanent withdrawal of this right to vote. - it can't be. but even more important is the call for the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. we have just received a devastating report from the monitoring committee on olaf. clearly, this is not the time to be talking about next steps. the commission says that in 40 per cent or more of cases member states do not act on olaf reports. but is this a matter for the member states or for the quality of the reports themselves? let us first take a critical look at the functioning of olaf and eurojust. if they function well enough, can the same results we want to achieve with the prosecution not be achieved through more intensive cooperation between member states?
president. - i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs karima delli, on a very strong and ingenious report. in these times of crisis, the social rental sector is of particular importance for large groups of people. i particularly welcome the emphasis on the fact that each country is free to determine the target group of social housing itself, to ensure decent and affordable housing for all. in the netherlands, a low income threshold for social rent was set years ago under the guise of european state aid rules, which completely excludes families who are just above that threshold. they have too little money for free rental housing and they have too much money for social housing. this report underlines what we have been saying for years, that the dutch minister should go to brussels to do something about the income ceiling. he can no longer hide behind the eu to avoid that. so, from here on out, the call: "come on, minister blok, come to brussels and the sooner the better!"
in writing. we are talking today about social housing, and especially about the big cuts in this area. the european commission has pressed for cuts. in the netherlands, rents are rising by up to 6.5% this year, which means hundreds of euros of rent increases per year. people are getting into trouble because of this, and this is the result of eu policies: making social housing inaccessible to middle-income earners, heavily taxing housing corporations, resulting in rising rents and investment freezes: these are all eu proposals that are currently being implemented. the european commission should be ashamed of itself. social housing is an investment in health and well-being and enables people to live independently for longer. the commission should give member states the space and, where necessary, the incentive to provide adequate social housing. investment is also needed to create adequate adapted housing for older people, enabling people to live at home for longer. instead, the commission is pushing for demolition and liberalization and putting tenants in trouble. the delli report condemns the ill-considered policies of the commission and calls for subsidiarity and affordable housing for a wide range of people and deserves our support.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left behind. it 's been said before: the presidencies, the commission, the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. we've been negotiating for 20 months, which means that my own son, who was in the middle of the target group when we started, fortunately, doesn't need these products anymore. the epp actually considered that the main criterion in these negotiations was the products requiring special protection, or at least groups requiring special protection. the products must be covered by a special legislative framework, but if we do not have to, we will not do so. i think we've managed to hold that up. another important principle for the epp was: let's not reinvent the wheel. let us take the existing european framework for plant protection products, for example, but keep looking at where it should and can be stricter when it comes to these products for vulnerable groups in society. i think that was a wise approach. we have thus considerably cleaned up legislation that has sometimes been in place for decades. i think the agreement is lean and mean, less text, but the same level of protection for the groups that need protection. i hope that we will finally be able to overcome the great differences in the implementation of this legislation which have arisen in the member states. i am sure that the european commission will have to do some homework. it 's been said before: in the gluten area, we have made the -- i think -- reasonable agreement to say, we keep the same level of protection and of definitions, so that nothing changes for the consumer, but we do bring those rules within the food information to consumers legislation. the commission has promised us that it will make these proposals and that it will take care of these matters, and we have done so in good time. i'd like to add one more thing. i come from a country where the quality criteria for baby milk, for example, are now well regulated. they were well taken care of. the legislation has now been improved even further. only the shelves are empty, because smart chinese from dutch supermarkets are buying these products en masse. it is not the subject under discussion, but i would like to pass it on to the european commission. we may have managed the quality well, we may have managed the production well, but if china then buys everything, we still have a problem of empty shelves in europe. we're gonna see more of that. and how, dear commissioner, are you dealing with the strategic question of food security? it's time we all thought about that more.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. first of all, mrs ries, i would like to thank you very much for the good work and the result achieved. the compromise will achieve a higher food safety standard for baby food and medical food. this is without health claims that are only intended to increase profits for the food industry. and i'm referring specifically to baby food, baby milk and follow-on milk. fair labelling for the consumer, then. it is also important that we limit pesticide residues in baby food as much as possible. it is only logical that food intended for the most vulnerable among us should not contain pesticides. i'm pleased we've eliminated a possible loophole. novel foods may only be added if they are also authorised under the novel food regulation and have thus been properly tested for food safety. we are setting a fine standard for food safety in europe. if we can do that in the area of special feedingstuffs, we must also do it in the area of, for example, gmos, cloned meat, the limitation of additives and intensive livestock farming. here too, food safety, consumer interests and animal welfare must be given the highest priority. the fact that it pays to distinguish oneself in food safety is shown by the huge exports of milk powder to continents that have less concern for food safety. and of course, our own supply must remain adequate. safe and high quality food in the eu with parnuts, i think we are off to a good start.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, 500 million european citizens were very shocked last week to find that a foreign nation has unlimited access to every intimate detail of their private lives. this is a very, very big issue. in the united states this is considered to be chefsache, as the germans say: it was the president himself who came and answered questions in congress and to the media. so what do we see in europe? first of all, with all due respect to the commissioner, we get the commissioner for public health to deal with this issue, but no president barroso, who should have got in his helicopter and flown to strasbourg to answer to 500 million citizens. do we have at least the responsible commissioner for counter-terrorism in the house? where is that responsible commissioner? why are not the prime political leaders of europe here? we also need to look at ourselves, colleagues. look around you at the empty hemicycle. just over a decade ago, when faced with a similar situation – something called echelon – this house decided to set up a heavy parliamentary inquiry. today, we get a handful of dedicated meps to address 500 million citizens. we are failing the european citizens at a time when trust in the european union is at an all-time low. we should be ashamed of ourselves. then to the subject matter itself. first of all, we cannot have been very surprised to find that the americans are spying on us because we knew about it. we have been asking questions again, again and again, but asking questions to the commission is like talking to a wall. i have a long list of unanswered questions to my questions about pfizer, about the patriot act, about the extra-territorial application of us law. we get no answers from the european commission. as for the member states – because there is national debate about the same issue everywhere now – ms merkel will ask the americans for an explanation, but in all our member states, including the uk, mr moraes, and in my member state, we are doing the same thing. the member states are using doublespeak to their citizens. are we surprised that they are losing trust? actually you can say that the citizens do not trust their governments anymore, but the governments seem to trust their citizens even less. we are also loosing moral authority here. how can we tell the governments of, say, egypt or iran – or any other country – that they should not spy on their citizens because that has no place in a democracy, if we are doing the same to our citizens? we are losing credibility here. on the special relationship, i have heard nearly all colleagues here refer to the special relationship with our best friends and closest ally, the united states. well i do not know if members listened to the statement by president obama when he was addressing the american audience who were worried. he said: do not worry, we are not spying on you as citizens, we are only spying on foreigners! foreigners, so that is us; that is european citizens! so what kind of a special relationship is that? over the last twelve years, europe has bent over backwards to be the closest ally of the americans in the fight against terrorism and i am sure we will continue to be their ally. but then we need to see eye to eye, and we expect the commission – and with all due respect, and i am grateful you are here commissioner borg – to make this chefsache, as this is a matter for political leadership. we need political leadership in europe to defend the rights of our citizens, and the time is now.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. − mr president, i want to urge all colleagues to vote in favour of amendments 71, 72 and 73, which were put forward by alde and the greens and supported by the ecr and epp. these amendments give member states the choice on how much of the fund they want to use and the option of transferring what they do not use to others who need it more. this will provide the highest level of solidarity for three main reasons: firstly, if all member states, including germany and the uk, are forced to participate, the countries worst hit by the crisis will lose millions, leaving people there to starve – even if the fund goes up to eur 3.5 billion. compared with now, there will be a transfer from countries like greece, portugal and spain to countries like germany, the uk, the netherlands and sweden. this is the exact opposite of solidarity. these amendments will prevent this. secondly, while poverty is equally horrible in all member states, it is not the same in all member states. with the amendments, aid organisations will have a choice of measures to help the most deprived in their country best. thirdly, a large blocking minority in council have said that they would rather have no fund at all than an obligatory fund. using this as a negotiating tactic is plain silly. making the fund obligatory will not give them a reason to go up to eur 3.5 billion, it will merely put the whole fund in danger, leaving everybody out in the cold. the amendments will prevent this; please vote in favour of them.
president, according to the european commission, in 2010 many europeans were on the verge of poverty or social exclusion. the majority of this group are citizens of the southern or eastern member states. with a tearful story about 'creating better social cohesion' and other socialist propaganda, the commission wants to spend at least two and a half billion euros on this again. the point is that the northern countries, like the netherlands, can draw their own pockets and the rest of us can make our own money. the commission is not shy about calling the programme's termination an erosion of solidarity. the netherlands has already made a double and total contribution to solidarity. in the netherlands we have good social facilities for people who are unable to provide for themselves. the financial plundering of countries that are doing well must end. mr president, i would like to ask you to withdraw this regulation and not to interfere in this matter.
finally, mr president, we have reached agreement on a comprehensive package on asylum. and although i am certainly granting mrs malmström leave, the real work has yet to begin, because the dublin system is cracking. so there's a major flaw in that system. it is assumed that if you guard your external borders well, you have few asylum requests to process. but that's not true. even if an asylum seeker reports to the border, you must treat the asylum request properly and receive the asylum seeker in a humane manner. the better you guard the borders, the more asylum requests you'll get. if you simply let asylum seekers through in the hope that they will travel clandestinely through your member state to other countries in europe, you will get fewer asylum applications. it is therefore no wonder that the asylum procedure is not in order, particularly in countries with long external borders. asylum seekers are the first victims of this. they cannot even apply for asylum and the conditions of reception are inhuman. for this reason, the european court of justice has prohibited the transfer of asylum applications to certain member states. that puts the ax to the roots of the system. i call on the commission to start a discussion as soon as possible on the design of a new system. that could be a system of european asylum centres, often near the external borders. it also makes asylum a more shared responsibility and allows us all to work together to ensure that asylum applications are dealt with properly. finally, a word about eurodac. the collection and storage of asylum seekers' fingerprints was necessary for dublin to function. however, it was not intended to give the police and the judiciary access to this database. it is criminalising, it is stigmatising and, i say it loud and clear, it is not a crime to apply for asylum. asylum seekers are not automatic suspects. and so my group remains opposed to the eurodac proposal.
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, i was one of those who negotiated eurodac for the netherlands, at least in the initial phase, and i thought it was perfectly normal, difficult but normal for the functioning of the asylum system that you take your fingerprints and that you store them. it's a whole different thing now. what we want now is for the police and the judiciary to be able to consult that database for the purpose of tracing criminals. that is a complete détournement de pouvoir. that is a completely different interpretation of what we intended.
mr president, in a country like the netherlands, it appears that the majority of asylum seekers are not entitled to refugee status. the procedure is therefore designed to distinguish as quickly as possible between genuine refugees and asylum seekers. each member state has years of practical experience of what works and what doesn't work in their country when it comes to identifying those who are likely to qualify for refugee status. the unification of these rules now agreed upon threatens to destroy the experience gained by the member states. the absorptive capacity of societies cannot be ignored in the debate on asylum policy. migration is not just about asylum seekers, but also about family and labour migration. the effects on societies must be seen in terms of total migration. but this debate can only be conducted at the level where its effects are visible, that is, at national level. migration policy must remain national. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, and in particular madam minister, are we now working towards a common european asylum policy, where asylum seekers in every member state have an equal chance of obtaining asylum, where they are properly received, not put in prison, receive legal aid, and where they are given counselling to people who are traumatised? or are we now working towards the point where each member state can fine-tune its policy to be a little more stringent than its neighbours? the dutch state secretary for justice, mr fred teeven, managed to write in the amnesty international newsletter that the intention is that the dutch asylum policy should be a little stricter than that of belgium. if that is the intention, if a member state can get away with honestly saying that it wants to be stricter than its neighbours, there is no common european asylum policy. and that is my conclusion, unfortunately, from what has been presented here.
the agreement on schengen legislation leaves some room for border checks. but the tone is really that border controls no longer belong in the european union. the free movement of persons and goods is sacred, so it sounds. restrictions in the form of border controls should only be allowed in the case of the most extreme exception, for example in the case of a terrorist threat. this line, mr president, is too far for me. the abolition of border controls clearly has a dark side. traffickers have almost free reign within the schengen area. every day, women are being transported across europe and forced into prostitution somewhere. our police services see it happening, but they cannot intervene because the european court of justice has ruled that the dutch marshal cannot use video footage at border posts for more than 90 hours a month. i find that really absurd. the free movement of goods and people is important. and the abolition of border controls has contributed to that free movement. but it is ultimately up to each member state to decide how it wants to maintain public order and combat crime. free movement within europe is a beautiful thing, but let us not be naive. criminals are not. they are happy to take advantage of any opportunity that europe offers them. schengen is ok, but always european open borders, no.
i have opposed schengen on many occasions. the abolition of internal borders may have been a nice idea on paper, but in practice we see that the disadvantages outweigh the benefits many times over. schengen facilitates crime and to combat this we are again coming up with new legislation from brussels, which makes brussels stronger and the member states weaker. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this crime, including the introduction of border controls where member states consider it appropriate. what good citizen would not show his passport to prevent criminals and vagrants from invading the host country? nor does passport control in any way affect the principle of free movement of persons. why is everyone so allergic to border controls? schengen is a typical example of a european policy that has gone hopelessly off the rails. i therefore call on the member states once again to choose the interests of their own citizens and to abandon schengen.
president. - after a year of debate on the evaluation mechanism and the possibility of temporarily closing borders, we now have a decision to make. but who's telling who? what's the outcome after a year? member states are allowed to know for themselves and member states are not allowed to show the reasons for their decision to temporarily close a border. they certainly do not want the european commission or the european parliament to be really involved in decision-making. that shows that i think it's mainly intended to tell your own citizens 'oh, we still have the borders in our own hands', when that's not the case elsewhere. the dutch government spends a few hours a month checking the license plates of eastern european vans. they say they're doing it to fight crime. in other words, eastern european license plates indicate dangerous people in dangerous cars, and that's crime-fighting. ladies and gentlemen, the member states are fooling each other and their people.
mr president, we are in a testing phase of the new economic governance. i would like to thank vice-president olli rehn and president barroso for the recommendations to member states. the budgetary objectives take account of the poor economic situation. the recommendations are far-reaching and ambitious in terms of structural reforms. you are right to point out the great risk of an increase in the burden. it is precisely in structural reforms in the member states that an important key lies to economic recovery, to the restoration of competitiveness and to employment growth. i would like to say to our socialist colleagues here: "you don't solve problems by ignoring them". the french president is living proof of that. it is important, mr president, that the heads of government support the recommendations jointly and that each of them show decisiveness. the good examples, however difficult, are the heads of government in ireland, spain, portugal, latvia. and i hope that others, including the netherlands, will follow. but with my spanish colleague, i do say: "europe must do more, and europe must do more". that is why i am concerned about the recent franco-german declaration. the same applies to the banking union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the reform of the financial sector. and what i want to say in closing is: "commission, come up with an ambitious proposal for the single resolution mechanism. you can count on our support.
in writing. - the compromise now reached between the three european institutions has some good elements. the member states will inform each other when they temporarily introduce border controls and the schengen evaluation mechanism will be removed from the european union. at the same time, the compromise retains a strong community component: the commission's officials are involved in any consultation on border controls and the european parliament must also be informed. on the one hand, the compromise contains good elements which ultimately respect the autonomy of the member states in border control. on the other hand, this compromise is what happens very often in europe: the eu is getting a foot in the door to meddle with border controls. in the long term, this will ensure that the community is able to implement this policy. the netherlands has already noticed this, because the european court of justice in luxembourg has given our country a slap on the wrist in the area of camera surveillance along the borders: these cameras are only allowed to be used for 90 hours a month. that's why i'm against it. i think that the slow but certain communitization of a fundamental right of every state - control over its own borders - is undesirable.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, what started peacefully is now turning into violence. the images have made an impact on all of us, not only in turkey, but in europe and in the world. we in this parliament have always underlined the importance of turkey carrying out reforms in order to safeguard fundamental freedoms. these include the right to protest. it is not only a matter of legal reforms, but also of perception. if the language of prime minister erdoğan’s comments had been more sensitive, and if his style of governing had been more sensitive to those who did not vote for him, this situation would not have arisen. therefore i totally agree with president gül that democracy is about more than elections. a majority always needs to consider the position of the minority. today mr erdoğan is meeting the taksim platform and i sincerely hope that he will use this opportunity to present himself as leader of all citizens. however, a vibrant democracy also needs a competent, constructive opposition, and that also [is lacking]. i believe that there are, at least, challenges for the opposition. this parliament has consistently criticised the situation as regards media freedom in turkey. i think that the past two weeks have confirmed our concerns. i hope that the recent events, devastating as they are, might prove to be a turning point for turkey.
president, last month mr van rompuy, who was lyrical about the so-called progress in turkey, thought it a good idea to speed up the accession talks with turkey. he even invited prime minister erdogan to visit brussels. a miscalculation of epic proportions! and that's not wisdom in hindsight. the demonstrations in turkey may seem to have come relatively suddenly, but the same cannot be said of the islamization agenda and repression of the erdogan regime. this has been warned by many, including the freedom party. but the european union is blind to reality. the european union has been a major player in the process of democratization in turkey. in an earlier statement, mrs ashton said the eu was determined to resume dialogue with turkey. erdogan is going to go on a rampage. and what does the eu do? he's just gonna roll the red carpet clean for erdogan. mr president, this is absurd! enough is enough! as far as the pvv is concerned, erdogan is not welcome in brussels at all! the eu is not worth a nickel if it sends this islamist another invitation!
president. - the turkish minister for european affairs yesterday called his prime minister, mr erdogan, a gift from god to the nation. this political evaluation is tantamount to the acute lack of realism displayed by the lauded prime minister erdogan himself in these tumultuous taksimids. worse still, the public discourse of the turkish prime minister is characterized by deliberate social polarization. sadly, erdogan continues to heat up the public atmosphere by blaming outright untruths on the behavior of protesters at taksim square in istanbul. take, for example, the debunked fabrication about the desecration of a mosque. more controversially, however, i find the comparison made by the prime minister in a long speech yesterday between the largely peaceful protesters and the perpetrators of the murderous attack in the south-east of the country earlier last month. and that's against the backdrop of brutal police brutality against his critics. the council and the commission must not allow this complete lack of political self-criticism and sense of responsibility to go unnoticed! can you give me a concrete example? because at the end of last week, prime minister erdogan did not even bother to hear commissioner füle's interpretation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the economic power derived from a decade of akp dominance certainly deserves close european attention. the turkish government's cash-crane over 40 billion euros a year in public procurement virtually silences both the public and private media on serious corruption cases. the controversial editor-in-chief of cnn türk admits it to the dutch press: "the protesters don't realize that we don't make the decisions. these are our bosses who have interests in all sectors of the economy. our coverage must not interfere with those interests. so we don't report on corruption". sure, turkey has plenty of critical media, thankfully. in 2006 alone, this led to the discovery of no less than 271 cases of acp manipulation of public procurement. the point is, however, that the main culprit not only got away with it, but is now even part of the erdogan cabinet! and next week he's coming to brussels! the akp should be cleansing itself of its own corruption, especially after the massive nationwide protests of the past few weeks. and not to the exclusion of the party, as the responsible akp parliamentarian from hatay province felt. honesty is the longest lasting virtue. it is also for turkish society. in this spirit of openness i am also looking forward to the delegation talks next week on the territory of the republic of turkey.
mr president, via social media we have seen many people: men, women, pious, secular, young, old, bankers, entrepreneurs, students; they all want their voice to be heard. they have been largely peaceful: pots and pans have been used to voice concern. the people in turkey are experiencing the dictatorship of a majority, their voices unheard as a result of restrictions in media freedom, the high threshold for political parties and the government’s winner-takes-all mentality. the weakness of the opposition surely does not help either. but the government, which presents itself as full of ambition and confidence internationally, must act responsibly. they must urge restraint in police violence and see dialogues and reforms. this does not mean arresting lawyers, fining the media and inciting people. personal threats by the president, the prime minister and the akp party towards the media, social media, financial institutions and all of the citizens that they claim to represent is worrying, dangerous and misguided. let us be honest, as honest as turkish politicians tend to be towards us. we have addressed the problems with the rule of law, separation of powers, fundamental rights and the need to respect the rights of women and the media. once more we would like to stress the need for actual democratisation, beyond ‘one man, one vote’. turkey needs to respect pluralism and freedoms and strive to be a liberal democracy, not an illiberal one.
mr president, the protestors today deserve the same solidarity as the girls with headscarves who were peacefully demonstrating for their rights some years ago. the feeling deep down is the same; the reaction is against governments imposing their preferred lifestyles on the citizens. we need pluralism and democracy for everyone. the people in the streets of turkey are of various backgrounds, ages and beliefs. we see the devout muslims praying; others doing yoga; turkish nationalist and kurdish activists, lgbt groups and rival football supporters side by side. the government and the opposition have a lot to learn from them. as for the violence, this excessive force by police should immediately come to an end. there should be an immediate end to the hostile rhetoric. the authorities should do their utmost to find an inclusive and peaceful solution to the situation. however, the actions of the authorities do not seem to improve. yesterday over 50 lawyers were taken into custody for protesting in the courthouse in favour of the peaceful demonstrators. the events of the last days remind us of the importance of the role of the eu. negotiations in chapters 23 and 24 need to be opened. the turkish government wants this; the demonstrators want this, since these are the chapters where prevention of torture and ill-treatment, impunity, freedom of expression and assembly, the media and police cooperation are dealt with. therefore, there seems to be no obstacle to making the necessary reforms. these issues are currently being covered by the positive agenda but since the current developments are not very positive these chapters need to be opened.
rapporteur. − madam president, madam high representative, special representative, colleagues, i am glad we are here together to discuss this important topic. in syria, over 150 journalists have been murdered over the past two and a half years. the violence makes it nearly impossible to report independently on the violence and the war. only this week in turkey, which has more journalists in prison than any other country in the world, the president stated that social media are more dangerous than a bomb and regulators fined media for ‘inciting hatred’. these actions speak volumes about the power of the free word. in iran, in the run-up to the elections, the media and internet have been restricted even more than we deemed possible. in russia, the government has granted itself authority to use deep packet inspections of the internet. journalists and bloggers have been murdered and beaten up. intimidation is hardly investigated. in china, an estimated 30 000 people work on monitoring micro-blogging sites and adjusting the terms of censorship, some of which have been set technologically to make sure no search results are found when looking for information on, for example, tiananmen square. these countries are not at all unique in their repression of media and journalists. there are many countries where governments are using anti-terrorism and other national security laws to repress. other problems are political interference through public media budgets, tax fines, or when politicians are owners of ever-growing media conglomerates. of course media are still used for outright propaganda as well. the criminalisation of speech, such as through blasphemy laws, libel and restricting ‘homosexual propaganda’, is also worrying. the eu as a community of values should aspire to lead in ensuring that the free word, whether blogged or spoken, and information, whether research or photographs, are protected. journalists and free pluralist media are essential for checks on power; and a focus on neighbouring countries is natural. by improving coordination between the directorate-general for development cooperation (devco) and the external action service, we can achieve stronger results and impacts globally. we must mainstream press freedom in all our policies on election observations, democracy, neighbourhood policy, trade and development programmes. the programmes we have should be deployed more effectively, but new ones are also necessary. journalists facing trial should be able to rely on our know-how and on a legal defence fund. the end goal in all of our programmes should be that people do not depend on eu funding but that programmes can run independently, that local capacity is built to stay. we must engage both at government level and at local and civil society levels. indeed the private sector also has a role to play to foster open societies. we call on businesses to take their responsibility. with growing digitisation, the public value of information must be preserved. self-regulation and privatising of policing and law enforcement on line are dangerous. at the same time we see opportunities in the empowerment of individuals who, through social media, can access information, assemble and speak freely. citizen journalism makes us eye-witnesses to events as they unfold. in order to ensure our own independence in this parliament and to make sure that the rankings of countries are not politicised, we have not mentioned countries explicitly in this report but instead we have addressed trends and problems faced and we have focused on concrete solutions. but the assessment on the country-by-country situation is left to the combined work of four ngos and the work of them you will find in the annexes. it will be updated on a rolling basis and i want to thank them for their work, as well as the shadow rapporteurs. we have worked very well as a team and it has been great to receive input from stakeholders, journalists, bloggers and people all over the world on an online draft that has certainly made the work of this report and the content of this report more relevant on the ground. it is closely related to the digital freedom strategy for the eu’s foreign policy which was adopted last december and we look forward to hearing about how a strategy for press and media freedom will be set up by the european external action service and the commission. i believe that we have both the responsibility and an opportunity that we can take together.
president, religions and ideologies are the ultimate evil of this world. centuries-old dogmas are being forced upon people and children to impose backward, outdated and idiotic worldviews. religions make people stupid and keep people stupid, despite the scientific truth that there are no supernatural beings. the right of religions to exist is that they impose rules of life which contain a self-proclaimed truth. rules of conduct that are considered superior to empirically proven facts. everyone has the right to think in his head whatever he wants, however crazy it may be and however detached it may be from any sense of reality. human rights are based on the need to protect those who are discriminated against on the basis of something that is beyond their own free will, something they are born with or something that is done to them. think of having a certain skin color, disability, race, sexual orientation or gender. these people deserve protection from any form of arbitrariness. and i'm with you on that. but believing in a deus is a choice. it's not congenital. it's a choice people make with their heads full of wisdom - or so you'd think. sadly, children are brainwashed from an early age to adopt the beliefs of their environment. it's your most childish abuse, because no one is born believing, you are made to. believers must always be able to be ridiculed and mocked, to be ridiculed and constantly called upon for their delusions. blasphemy is the nail in the coffin of free speech and common sense. hurting and insulting believers is a right that everyone has. because, if you want to believe in god, allah, buddha or whatever, you have to accept that you're going against all forms of human logic and that there's a price to that in a free democratic society, which is that you can be ridiculed for your idiotic ideas. and you're just gonna have to accept that. i'm going round. believing is something you do at home, not in public. it should be a human right not to be confronted with age-old dogmas and to be allowed to ridicule them.
blue-card question. – i listened to you, colleague, and i have just one question: would you think these are appropriate methods, to put people out from one day to the next and to close down television stations, just like that, as if we were speaking about a coup d’état? i would say these are methods that are neither accepted by the social charter of the european union, nor by a score of ilo conventions, and i am amazed that you would just accept them like that.
mr president, rightly this annual report of the european external action service pays a great deal of attention to religious freedom. i have three comments to make. first, the report shows that religious freedom is under pressure. millions of people in many, many countries of the world are being persecuted for their faith, and the problem is now so vast that fat reports or fat statements no longer work. it is now time for the high representative to take action and use instruments such as trade policy and development aid to really fight this oppression. that's one. two of them. the foreign office currently lacks a department that is genuinely concerned with religious freedom. my call is: the commission is therefore proposing to set up a department which can also monitor developments and take concrete action. finally, the european parliament is not silent either, you know that president we now have a working group in the house which is focusing on religious freedom. i'm allowed to co-chair that. i say again to the high representative: we are happy to work with you to develop that issue of religious freedom.
mr president, freedom of expression is a fundamental human right. it is ‘the touchstone of all the freedoms to which the united nations is consecrated’ – that is how the un formulated the importance of freedom of expression in 1946, at its very first session. more than 60 years later there are still countries where journalism is the most dangerous of all professions. indeed, for journalists, 2012 was the deadliest year ever registered, with somalia, syria, mexico and pakistan as the most risky countries. freedom of information simply does not exist in countries like eritrea, north korea and turkmenistan. in the case of some countries, where our strategic interests come into play, the eu and the usa show a guilty silence on the lack of respect for human rights. turkmenistan is such a country, as it is important for us for our access to afghanistan. this is appalling. turkmen citizens are waiting for europe to assume its responsibility and condemn clearly the violation in turkmenistan of freedoms we are happy to enjoy here. the added value of the eu as an actor in the world is its potential political weight: it is stronger than the member states could ever be individually. so let us show this added value, let us help and defend imprisoned journalists, let us defend the freedom of the internet and hold governments to account. the eu could also do better in assisting the media in developing countries. journalists are essential in the struggle against corruption, and in striving towards better governance that takes better account of people’s needs, particularly those of the most vulnerable. this excellent report by my colleague ms schaake shows the way. in our negotiations on the future development policy of the eu, freedom of expression is an essential aspect of the human-rights-based approach that the eu should have at the heart of its external action.
madam president, i salute the commitment of the vice-president/high representative and our commissioner for development, and i strongly share their vision. but after thousands of soldiers have been killed, after hundred of billions of euros have been spent in afghanistan – more than in any developing country – many donors in the international community want to leave as fast as possible. this is understandable, but also wrong. in 2014, the few clear results reached in the country will still be very fragile. girls going to school, and an administration – albeit one plagued by corruption – that is gradually improving its functioning, are improvements that can erode very quickly if we stop investing in development and in governance, as my colleague mr danjean has just said, and if we stop training the army and the police force. the first victims will be women, and already violence against women is on the rise again, after a decade of improvements. we have to continue and strengthen our presence with the eupol training mission, as the police still lack the skills to act properly when women are confronted with violence, most often domestic violence. taliban insurgents are spreading fear, and children are now asking their mothers to stop working in order to stay alive. the afghan constitution needs to be respected in the peace negotiations. such is the wish of the vast majority of the afghans. therefore, we, the eu, will need to continue our efforts, as commissioner piebalgs has just said, for many years to come.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development and cooperation. - i have indeed proposed to the committee on development cooperation that the committee on international trade should advise the committee on economic and monetary affairs not to ratify this interim epa. i didn't make it. the committee on development and cooperation proposes that it be ratified. but now when i listen to david martin explaining why this interim epa is not perfect, when i hear mr piebalgs saying that it is not working enough towards regional trade, i think everyone knows exactly why this is not good for cameroon, but for lack of a better one it should be. we are following a circular line, we are turning ourselves into a circle. because why should it? because, of course, cameroon must be able to continue to market its products in europe at a better rate. but why is that again? because we ourselves have recently changed that market exit regulation to actually make it a little bit more difficult for developing countries. we in europe continue to force developing countries which need a different trade policy to sign free trade agreements, which we now call economic partnership agreements. it sounds like development cooperation, but it is ultimately free trade for our products, and there is not enough consideration given to what it means to develop a country in africa or the caribbean. and that makes me very sad.
today we are discussing the millennium development goals for post-2015. as if europe had no more important things to discuss in the midst of this enormous economic crisis we are experiencing! a crisis that has come about, in particular, thanks to the misguided policies of this eu, but that is beside the point. i am here to advocate the fight against forced marriage of girls, the gender gap in education, violence and discrimination against women and girls in general and the prevention of sexual violence in particular. a fine case in itself, but i miss the point of naming the root cause of all these problems, namely islam. the problem is almost exclusively one of muslim-dominated countries, but it is obviously not a matter to be discussed here in parliament. a stunning political correctness, which is life threatening, especially for the women and girls they claim to be protecting. as long as this parliament does not want to identify the cause, there can be no solution. i can be brief about all the nonsense that is being said about climate, the environment and sustainability. this is crazy! no more spending a penny! wisdom, understanding and truth were conspicuously absent in the writing of this account. i 'll say it again . it's too dangerous! the ppe group will therefore vote against this report.
madam president, the most important message of this excellent report by filip kaczmarek is that trade and the market alone will not bring an end to poverty. some would like to try to revive this liberal utopia in the developing world, although it found its waterloo in the financial crisis here. of course we have to facilitate trade – fair trade, sustainable trade. we have to ensure access for all to loans, savings, micro-finance and more, that will allow people to improve their livelihoods. financial inclusion is a condition for inclusive growth. we can end poverty by 2030, but not without accountable governments addressing the needs of the poorest and most vulnerable in their countries: of minorities, women and farmers. if the poorest are not heard in their capitals, only the elites will enjoy an unstable wellbeing and that is what makes the human rights-based approach of the eu so crucially important. development is not a technocratic problem – some fertiliser here, some market there – it is about assisting people in changing their societies if they so wish, step by step, reaching a gradual enlargement of freedoms.
in writing. − the sgp group supports the development of eu guidelines for the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief. the draft recommendation by rapporteur andrikiene contains valuable elements to this end. the right to change one's religion and the right to freedom of christian education are both being put on the map again. that is why i am voting in favour of this report. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the baltic sea region. this does not do any justice to the disparity between the christian religion and the non-christian beliefs mentioned. this objection is also clearly expressed by the secular opponents of the andrikiene report. their fierce opposition was an additional incentive for the sgp euro group to support this report despite the objections mentioned.
author. − mr president, the eu has a strategic partnership with russia, but accusing the eu of maintaining a secret service spy network by supporting russian ngos does not bring us any closer together. president putin’s style of government is repression against ngos, against human rights activists and against minorities. it has nothing to do with modernisation or with stability and it can only lead to further self-isolation of russia. we cannot allow visa-free travel for russian state officials as long as there is no visa ban for the officials implicated in the death of mr magnitsky. on the other hand we do urge the eu to grant visas rapidly for russians who are suffering from political persecution, to prevent further cases of suicide and abduction. bills were passed in the duma this week against ‘homosexual propaganda’ and for the protection of religious beliefs. these bills are a further setback for human rights in russia. they violate the right to freedom of expression. they create yet another ground for politically influenced and selective persecution and they violate lgbt rights. these bills go against the human rights treaties, against the visa dialogue and against the fundamental values of europe, and widen the gap between russia and the eu even further.
author. − mr president, azerbaijan has committed itself to respect for human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law in the context of the eastern partnership, and its membership of the council of europe and the osce. however, these agreements are not just signatures on paper: they must translate into action. political trials and the repression of civil society and the media must end. specifically, ilgar mammadov must be released and charges against him dropped. the intimidation of journalists, the fining of demonstrators and the outright banning of peaceful assembly are unacceptable. i urge president barroso to take up the issues of human rights and media freedom at the highest level when he meets president aliyev on 21 june 2013. our economic, energy and strategic interests must not overshadow the great importance of human rights. the people in azerbaijan look to the eu as a community of values, and rightly so. we must not turn our backs on those people, who deserve to have their fundamental freedoms protected.
author. − mr president, the violence, torture, rape, uprooting and destruction of property of rohingya muslims in burma must end. human rights watch speaks of ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity. those are the most serious allegations we know. there are now no fewer than 130 000 displaced people who are not receiving adequate aid. in the meantime, press and media – both online and offline – are not free in burma. we want to embrace the democratic reforms, but the government cannot leave out a minority, the rohingya. the government must protect people and be held accountable for committing violence if such acts are committed by the security forces, for example. we call on all governments to make provision for un access and monitoring. the eu must raise human rights at the highest level and ensure compliance with human rights clauses in trade and investment treaties as well. sakharov prize winner aung san suu kyi has remained silent – too silent – so far on the situation of the rohingya muslims. we urge her to be more vocal as a human rights leader.
the commission proposal on roadworthiness tests for motor vehicles is yet another example of the utterly excessive force of regulation and meddling in matters in which the eu should not be involved at all. in the netherlands we have a good system for periodic technical inspection. we just did it right. nevertheless, the european commission is trying to get things back on track. it's a form of pimping. and to justify this interference, even bogus reasoning and unsubstantiated arguments are put forward. because there is no need for eu legislation here. there are clearly far too many eu officials to keep busy. the eu should leave full control of technical inspection to the member states.
president. - i read in council conclusion no 11 that the european summit welcomes the opening of negotiations on a free trade agreement between the united states and europe. i think that the word 'pleased' is a real miss, because when those conclusions were written last friday, it was already known that american intelligence services were spying on european governments on a large scale. a well-functioning free trade agreement between europe and the united states must be based on trust and integrity, but the relationship has been severely damaged by the wiretapping scandal. it is therefore important, mr president, that europe holds a summit with the obama administration, where obama gives a clear view of the situation. only then can there be a good relationship between europe and the united states. we are very pleased, mr president, that this is the case.
mr president, the summit at the end of last week was largely concerned with the alarmingly high level of youth unemployment and european funding to promote growth. i honestly don't expect much from the latter. the measures must come from the member states themselves. that is why i welcome the call for the member states with high unemployment to reform the labour market. this does not change the fact that the real problem is the intractable euro crisis. the banking union does not give the right answer. the exchange rate mechanism offers the prospect of improving the competitiveness that we are so anxious to achieve in europe. more europe and centralisation will not do that. that is why i am opposed to a european economic government and do not expect much good from mr van rompuy's prospects. the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 was also agreed last week. the steps towards the creation of own resources for the european union are undesirable. the eu is at the service of the member states, and this should be reflected in the funding through member state contributions.
mr president, this is another typical report in the category of 'what are they doing?' the european union does not seem to be learning from the constant protests of society against the relentless rule and meddling. fortunately, the report does much to water down the commission's idiotic proposals. the enormously high control functions, control frequencies and the extension to engines, scooters and even mopeds, are of course completely undesirable. in fact, the eu should not interfere in this at all. the report rightly states that the netherlands objects to these initiatives because they are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. it is a pity that parliament does not see that.
mr president, this is another of those climate fundamentalist reports on which we vote every so often in this parliament. it's all about naive goals and wishful thinking. fossil fuels have to go as fast as possible, but that's not going to happen. everything has to be carbon neutral, the usual song of the climate ayatollahs. the only conclusion to be drawn from the report, mr president, is that: why was this report written, what is its purpose, what does it actually say, what do we do with it now? i would say, just don't write these kind of meaningless, useless reports anymore. then maybe we'll really have a better world.
in addition to numerous amendments to the constitution, a new law on national security has been adopted in hungary. under the new national security law, diplomats, judges, prosecutors, and high-ranking military personnel must be re-tested every year to determine whether or not they pose a national security risk. to test this, they are spied on for up to two months each year, even in their homes, perhaps even in their bedrooms. they just don't know which two months out of the 12 months the government is watching them and they don't know what the government is looking for. in the meantime, we are angry, surprised and outraged from left to right in this parliament at the spying practices of the united states on our citizens, our diplomats, our missions. how is it then that the right in this house thinks that the orbán government has the right to do whatever it wants with its citizens and its dignitaries in its own country? citizens will feel insecure, citizens will never know, when they wake up in the morning, what the rule of law will look like now! franz kafka couldn't have made this up. one writer, however, did, namely george orwell, in his book "1984".
mr president, it is a shame that this debate is being turned into a left-right issue. fundamental rights are not left-wing; they are not right-wing; they are fundamental. they are for everybody. they do not belong to any particular nationality either. i have to say that i am always quite surprised to see the position of the epp group. there are some very sensible, real democrats in the epp group, and i have heard some sensible words as well. at the same time, it strikes me that you always seem to be defending the wrong people. you used to defend silvio berlusconi. now you are defending mr orbán. we are talking about friends of hungary. friends, mr orbán, dare to tell each other the truth. and if we see that things are not going well, we should have the courage to tell each other. that is real friendship. i do not think that this debate should be about how we fit wrong policies, questionable policies, into legalistic definitions – this is about creating a true culture of fundamental rights for all eu citizens. finally, we are often reproached for applying double standards. there is some truth in that. yes, maybe in the past we were not vigilant enough, maybe in the past we did not consider that we should speak out, but we are learning. it is a learning process and we have criticised fundamental rights violations in other countries too.
mr. president, the transaction tax is a bad idea. when sweden introduced a transaction tax in 1984, over 30% of the trade volume moved to britain and japan also stopped for this reason. the transaction tax was announced here as a tax on the banks that are starting out. but does it hit the benches? it's hitting the consumer and the economy. a transaction fee increases the cost of investing, reduces trading volume and increases volatility. the introduction of this transaction tax through enhanced cooperation is also totally illegal. the treaty is quite clear on this point. if there are effects on the internal market, a measure may not be introduced in the context of enhanced cooperation. and the transaction tax has effects on the internal market. this shows that both the commission and parliament, which rejected an amendment of mine on this subject, are guilty of deception and abuse of power. it's a bad idea, it's an illegal idea, and we're going to implement it anyway. that, mr president, is brussels in a nutshell.
on behalf of the ppe group i too would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for her efforts. the epp initially had problems with your somewhat one-sided british approach. but the report as it has been amended respects the diversity of the european banking landscape and at the same time seeks to restrict 'risky speculation on its own account'. the epp considers it important that a european framework for the structure of banks should be in line with the many reforms already under way: the commission has also proposed to increase the capital requirements, ecb banking supervision, a bonus cap and crisis management rules. a number of member states are working on their own proposals for the division of banks, but a patchwork of legislation does not fit into a banking union. that is why it is important that you, commissioner barnier, intend to come forward with a european legislative proposal. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the epp considers it important that the social function of banks should be given priority and that the universal banking model should be preserved. banks should also be able to continue to carry out customer-related trading activities, thereby providing loans to smes and businesses. that's part of it, part of that important oxygen, because loans are essential for economic growth. speculative activities which have nothing to do with customers must be separated because they have brought unnecessary risks to universal banks.
it is regrettable, also in the light of the last remarks by mr geier, that the council is not present this evening. first of all, my compliments to ingeborg gräßle. she has done her job with the usual care. a few months ago we thought the result would be good. in the meantime, a number of other events have taken place, including with commissioner dalli, and she has found it necessary to table a number of amendments. these amendments - and i told her that - are not bad at all. the only problem for me is what happens if we take them? will the council really stop negotiating? perhaps the commissioner can shed some light on this. however, a clear problem is the relationship between the supervisory committee and olaf itself. i would therefore like to propose the following and i would like to hear the commissioner's opinion on this : would it be useful to appoint a committee of three or four members at short notice, with access to olaf and to give an opinion to parliament/commission, in order to improve the relationship between the monitoring committee and olaf?
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. the situation at olaf is serious. first, the conflict with the monitoring committee will have to be resolved. some of our proposals are designed to do that. it is also worth recommending, as mr mulder said, the setting up of a 'committee of the wise' to bring about a lasting improvement in the situation. secondly, the low number of convictions in cases investigated by olaf is interpreted by the commission as a failure of member states' policies. but is it not also the quality of olaf's own work? i am getting these signals from the member states and i would like to see an independent, external investigation into this. finally, we must get rid of the pressure which the commission puts on olaf to do things in a hurry, and therefore often in a sloppy way. i have spoken to mr kessler about this and he does not like the pressure either. there is still a lot of work to be done, and that is why i do not think it is a disaster, but rather an opportunity, if the adoption of the regulation is delayed for a few months.
mrs gräßle has examined the functioning of olaf. that is a good thing, because olaf is not functioning. this is very serious, because the commission and parliament claim to be fighting fraud. but if the anti-fraud office is no longer in operation, it will be very difficult to take that claim seriously. i know this from my own experience after reporting a fraud case in a country far, far away. although olaf thought it worthwhile to have a full investigation, i have not heard anything more from the investigation, even as an informer. so this is very serious. there are hundreds of cases waiting in olaf's offices, but i have no doubt that they will be dealt with properly. so today we should not be talking about better olaf or other ways of working, but about putting an end to the eu circus here. that saves a huge amount of money and automatically and omnipotently prevents a lot of fraud.
mr president, first i would like to congratulate the president-in-office of the council on the first lithuanian presidency. with great delight, i heard her address issues such as european values, the year of the european citizen, and say that she wanted people to be able to access their liberties and release their potential. she said that she wanted lithuania to lead by example. i would very much encourage the lithuanian presidency to start leading by example by lifting the ban on the pride march in the centre of vilnius. when i go to vilnius at the end of this month, i want to see vilnius celebrating diversity. i want to see a city which is celebrating openness and tolerance, which is an image of a city that is very colourful and embraces everybody. i think you will agree with me, madam president-in-office, that homophobia is not the answer to these uncertain times. homophobia does not create jobs and is certainly not very good city marketing. this afternoon there will be another court ruling and i hope it is favourable. i hope to see you in vilnius on 27 july and celebrate diversity in europe.
mr president, 2014 is an important year to initiate the flow of funds that we created in the mff, and to make investments a reality. for the european structural and investment funds, we have a big budget of eur 325 billion available until 2020, and at the same time we see that a maximum core of 26.5 million people are unemployed. the core point is: if there are more people at work we can do it in a smarter and greener way. we have to negotiate with the council, with you president-in-office, to get agreement on three other issues. firstly, the market of conditionality: parliament is against the possibility of putting money from the regions aside during the period. secondly, the performance reserve: there is also a proposal to put eur 30 billion aside during the next seven years and maybe we can only spend it after 2020. thirdly, the border regions: they are the real victims from a financial perspective. taken together we have to negotiate on these important points. i have a lot of trust in your presidency. you did a great job in your own country, and so let us get down to work and create jobs.
i do not want to say at this point that the irish presidency was the worst presidency of all time, because there were others before that who did a lot less well, but it was not all pretty. we are going to be stuck with a multiannual financial framework which is completely unclear how it will work in the coming years. the only constant in the agreements is the fact that we will see money disappear from the northern member states to the southern ones. fortunately, each member state still has a veto on these. let us hope that at least one member state will dare to take the step of throwing this agreement into the trash.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). unfortunately, the climate atoll has succeeded today. if you don't like the outcome of a carbon trading market, then you shouldn't make a market out of it. that is a very simple reasoning. apart from that, of course, i cannot repeat often enough that it is of course an illusion that with a working co2 regulatory system we can stop or reverse the supposed climate change and save the world. what a shocking naivete of the climate fundamentalists.
mr president, just like the trading of co2 emission allowances, the financial transaction tax is also mentioned many times. the netherlands rightly opposes this disguised source of income for the money-spinning eu. the ftt, of course, was created in response to the mess that the banks made of it, not ordinary citizens. unfortunately, it does not punish the banks, it does not provide additional stability and the burden is simply paid by the citizen. it is extremely wrong to add to the burden of those citizens, especially at this time. the ftt is a mixture of european maladministration and economic populism.
the report on hungary is perhaps the most unstable project i have seen pass by here in the last four years. how can parliament think of insulting and mocking a free and sovereign country in such a way? what's next? inquisitors from the ep are travelling through europe looking for citizens who do not know the european anthem or who refuse to bow to the european flag. mr president, there are only three words that apply to this report: shame, shame, shame on you. i say to the voters in this house: please mind your own business!
in writing. - i shall abstain on this report. on the one hand, it is clear to me that hungary has gone too far in limiting the powers of the judiciary, the central bank and the media. the independence of the judiciary and the bank has been undermined and there is certainly cause for concern about the pluriformity of the media. on the other hand, the report has become a disjointed tangle of numerous opinions and views. the debate is completely polarized. but most of all: the report's present course is too one-sided. in a sense, a crusade is being launched against the autonomous member state of hungary. and who knows, tomorrow it will be the same for other member states. europe is not going to be able to do that and will sit in the seat of a moral judge. a chair that does not belong to europe in this scale and intensity.
in writing. - i cannot support mr mccarthy's report. the report suggests a breakdown of banks into customer-related credit and deposit activities and risky trading and investment activities. splitting is a controversial measure, however. both bankers and central bankers have serious reservations. for example, how well are both parts funded separately? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. on the other hand, the report rightly calls attention to the culture within the banking sector where a responsible remuneration system is geared to long-term financial stability rather than short-term profits. the cultural and moral aspect includes serving the interests of customers and the social role of banks vis-à-vis consumers, businesses and the economy as a whole.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i have to say i am a bit disappointed by the statements of the council and the commission although i know that commissioner reding made huge efforts. however, they do not really seem to reflect the urgency and the magnitude of the problem. it struck me, ms reding, that you referred first to international relations and then to citizens’ rights and i think that accurately reflects the attitude of the commission and the council in this matter. we have asked the commission, in particular, and the council for years and years and years to clarify the conflict of jurisdiction. we need somebody to tell the united states or indeed any other country: this is where your jurisdiction reaches; this is where the european jurisdiction starts. we can no longer tolerate that us laws like the patriot act and fisa are applied directly on eu territory. colleagues, we are legislators; we make laws and we have to guarantee to our citizens that they are covered by european law and not american law. i do not want to hear the argument of national security anymore. it is not credible any more. (applause)is bugging the eu offices in washington a matter of national security? is blanket surveillance of millions of innocent citizens a matter of national security? i do not buy that any more. we need explanations and not by an expert group behind closed doors; not civil services’ diplomats. we need political answers and, colleagues, i propose to you that we invite president barrack obama to appear before this house. you are laughing! we had the vice-president of the united states in this parliament when we were in a similar situation with swift three years ago. and if president obama feels that he has to go and visit chancellor merkel to explain, i feel that he should actually explain to 500 million european citizens. they are entitled to an explanation. we have to restore trust; the trust of our citizens, trust in transatlantic relations and in our moral authority. a final remark: i think it would be severely misguided to now suspend the talks on the free trade agreement but it is absolutely clear that we cannot sign an agreement with a partner that we cannot fully trust.
blue-card question. – my colleague had just said – and this is often assumed – that this massive data collection is very effective in, as you said, thwarting terrorist attacks. however, what do you say then about the fact that for years there has been this massive data collection and yet in attacks such as 9/11, mumbai, oslo, toulouse, madrid, london, the dutch killing of theo van gogh and the ‘doner killings’ in germany all the perpetrators were known to the secret services? so how effective is it really? if these people were known, if we had so much information, how was it possible that they were not detected?
bolivian president evo morales wants to fly home from moscow. rumor has it he's got snowden on his plane. meanwhile, european member states are banning people from flying over their countries or refuelling. and whether that was true or not, it doesn't really matter that much. however, member states are currently indicating, by member state: snowden has no business expecting anything from us. snowden will not be granted asylum. so we're all angry with america. we were shocked. we're glad that snowden has shown us what's going on, but this whistleblower doesn't need our help. we're threatening to shut down trade relations. but that's it. obama knows how to fly the flag. well, then it's a little bit of a kick against obama. after that, however, we'll just pick up where we left off. that's not fisting together!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, as we stand here, the egyptian people are flooding the streets in the largest political demonstrations ever seen. the situation is very tense. the government should not pit people against each other. violent clashes, and especially a civil war, must be prevented. though president morsi – or any government following in the corrupt footsteps of the mubarak dictatorship – would have had major challenges to reform the economy and to guide the country towards democracy, power grabs and restricting the rights of minorities, limiting and criminalising civil society and failing to avoid a bread and fuel crisis have culminated in an untenable situation. morsi has lost the legitimacy he once had in the eyes of many egyptians. it is encouraging to see so many egyptians reject the dictatorship of the majority, seeking the rule of law and the protection of the rights, liberties and opportunities of all egyptians. democracy is more than one man, one vote. the eu, too, must get its act together. so far ‘more for more’ rings hollow, as a hollow promise. we must not repeat the mistakes of the past. we must reach out to the population of egypt more forcefully and more strongly to help, in the immediate term, to prevent violence and to help facilitate an inclusive dialogue towards transition and free and fair elections, towards a rules-based society and a new constitution and towards economic recovery and necessary reforms, while respecting the rights and freedoms of all egyptians. we must do what we can to offer a democratic perspective to a massive young generation of egyptians who need such perspectives and look to europe. we cannot fail them.
i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative of inviting mr morsi to the house immediately after his inauguration. unfortunately, that has not yet happened and, given the situation in the last few days, i do not think it will happen. that is a great pity, because we could have had a good debate with him, perhaps something like the one we had yesterday with prime minister orbán of hungary. morsi has not shown his best democratic side. he has given himself extra powers, he is sticking to a very restrictive ngo law, religious freedom is being curtailed and parliamentary elections have been postponed until further notice. we were in cairo for the eu-egypt task force. we have solid funds ready to help egypt with its economy and its democracy, and again, it is not the time to release those funds. they'll still be available. but what should be our response? disapprove of what's happening in cairo now? pressuring for new elections for parliament and perhaps for the president? we have to stick to it, because the salafists were the second party in egypt in the elections. where are those disappointed morsi voters going? it sometimes seems as if this house thinks that they would all sign the membership card of the liberal international. but there is a chance that we will infuse this country with a sea of conservative thinking that will not do the position of free thinkers, of women, of minorities any good. anyone who has been saying in the past days and in the past debates 'let's take our hands off egypt, let's keep our pennies, let's keep putting conditions' (which we have been putting for a long time) should understand that this country must be brought towards a healthy democracy. because one thing we know for sure: in a democracy, a president is not elected by an army.
for the epp group when i called cairo this morning with my regular informant, he told me honestly that upon waking up his first thought was to go quickly to see how many deaths had occurred last night in cairo where he has lived for years. now, less than an hour ago, i had him on the line again, and another friend in the arab world who said he was a little shocked and concerned that there is no public order at all in mass demonstrations at the moment. the police are not present, understandably because of the unpopularity, but the army is also absent. that filled them and me with great fear, actually. in view of the complexity of the situation, the following questions arise: with all the justified criticism you can have of president morsi and his eventual forced departure it's all very much the question is there not a dangerous precedent where 'the street' (because that is the people) demands and governs? the egyptian opposition, which is deeply divided, has no programme to save the country from the economic abyss into which egypt is inexorably sinking. furthermore, a victory of the liberal and secular parties in early elections is highly unlikely, if one looks at the recent opinion polls. many of them will be radical, anti-western, salafist parties. after all, is the egyptian army our last hope to prevent total chaos and a bloody civil war? that would be a pretty big sign, if you look at egypt's recent past. not a very encouraging prospect.
mr president, in the netherlands we have a nice saying: 'don't let the cheese eat the bread'. sorry to interrupt so late at night, but it means something like "stand your ground" in english. that is exactly what we must do as the eu towards norway, to stand our ground, not to let us eat the cheese from the bread. because through various trade agreements norway has undertaken to open up markets, including for agricultural products. the skyrocketing taxes we are talking about today simply do not fit that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european commission may say 'yes, that effect is not so great, because it is not our largest trading partner', but for an individual horticulturist in my region that simply means the end of his business. it's as simple as that. one thing is simple: if norway is to benefit from access to the european market, europe must also have access to the norwegian market. these norwegian trade barriers have been in place for several months now and i see very little concrete action by the european commission so far. i think that "doing nothing" sends a very wrong signal, also for the future. we therefore call on the european commission to increase pressure on norway to start concrete talks at high level on the removal of the obstacles. if norway does not cooperate, countermeasures will be taken. the example of norwegian salmon is obvious. of course, always with the aim of returning to the normal relations that should exist between the european union and our good friend norway. but until then, we will not be eating the cheese off the bread. we will give that signal tomorrow as a parliament and we call on the commission to cooperate.
mr president, the single market is both one of the eu’s strongest legacies and one its most prevailing myths. it is not finished. when it comes to the digital single market, certainly we must move mountains of barriers to unlock the hundreds of billions of euros in value that we can add to the eu’s economy. the priorities for the mff stand in stark contrast to what is needed in order to make the eu the world’s most competitive digital market. that should be our ambition, but it requires resources for the next century – not the last. we have also been eagerly awaiting substantial proposals by the commission to reform and harmonise intellectual property rights. the current, fragmented system that looks at copyright through the lens of the printing press in a time of hyper-connectivity is not relevant any more. the reforms must reflect the public interest of access to knowledge, culture and information and the need to stop disproportionately protecting incumbents in the market. we need innovation and competition. that is why it is also high time that the commission enshrines net neutrality in law. we must ensure a level playing field online and should respect and protect the open internet. citizens expect more from governments, and rightfully so. open data, open standards, e-government and ict skills in education must all contribute to better delivery for our people.
the report on access to care for vulnerable groups, mr president, calls for the eu to intervene in the health care policies of the member states. the rapporteur believes that the european semester should also take into account issues such as accessibility and quality of care services. it doesn't get much crazier! the report even advocates free health care for vulnerable populations. mr president, there is no such thing as free, because someone has to pay the bill. this report is yet another example of the terrible euro-philist urge for comprehensive eu involvement. in the netherlands we have excellent social and medical facilities that are accessible to every citizen. the european union's intervention will only allow countries that are doing their job to pull the strings to help countries that are not doing their job. the socialist eu policy has repeatedly rewarded inefficiency and lack of organisation. mr president, let it be clear that health and social security policy are national affairs. and let it be made even clearer that this must remain the case with the pvv!
mrs lambert makes very good suggestions to ensure care for vulnerable groups and i support her. but we must not ignore the real cause of the fact that more and more people have no money for the doctor. the rapporteur rightly calls the elderly a vulnerable group. the elderly become vulnerable when their homes are being saved up, when the aow is being cut and when your pension is put at risk by illegitimate measures of the european union. but other groups are also becoming vulnerable. raise people's wages, take away their permanent employment contracts, make them travel long distances for medical treatment, yes, that makes people vulnerable. brussels is deliberately pushing this. it is therefore naive to ask the european commission to make recommendations to protect these vulnerable groups. the commission itself has caused these consequences. it is up to the eu to step back from this crisis and give member states financial space, especially when it comes to basic needs such as healthcare.
this dossier has been under negotiation for three years and it is good that it is adopted today. it was established in a trialogue. but we're finding that there's a lot more fraud going on on the internet than just hacking into information systems. i would like to make a brief addition to article 6, provided that the commission and the council expressly agree to this. "and other forms of internet fraud". the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the internet sector. i hope we can vote on it.
- a writer. - we are talking about nigeria this afternoon and the resolution before us gives a very broad list of problems in democracy in nigeria. it's actually pretty short to summarize: drought, hunger and bad governance lead to disasters, lead to extremism. the fact that thousands of nigerians are now fleeing and ending up in refugee camps in niger and cameroon indicates a situation that is out of control. this parliament calls on the nigerian government to assume its responsibility, to work for good governance and to work for economic prosperity. now that's a simple statement, and you're not going to just throw a terrorist group like boko haram out of the market, because this is of course what we all want, but we can't just say, "the way boko haram operates is leading to all the disasters in nigeria". the fact that nigeria seems to be becoming more and more of a failed state does not help. i see this resolution above all as a wake-up call from this parliament and a way of putting a heart under the belt of activists in nigeria who are fighting for democracy and equal rights for gays and lesbians; i hope that with this resolution we will create awareness in nigeria and provide protection to those activists.
author. − mr president, this house shares the grave concern over the terrorist activities carried out by boko haram and related groups which have resulted in no less than 4 000 deaths over the past four years and forced many to flee violence and terror. i well remember how a distribution centre, where the youth of nigeria served as part of a year of civic duty, was blown up in the days before the presidential elections in 2011, leaving many young people dead. extremists and terrorists see democracy as a threat. to ensure there is no further escalation, extra-judicial killings should end, the downward spiral of revenge violence should be halted, and boko haram members and other suspected terrorists should be charged and tried. the principle of ‘innocent until proven guilty’ cannot be replaced by the destruction of entire villages where suspected members may live. nigerian law allows prosecution under the terrorism prevention act of 2011. the role of the media deserves our special attention. it is not acceptable for journalists to be kept out of large areas because there is a state of emergency. threats to journalists for reporting, as well as censorship, should be prevented, condemned and avoided. while it may seem like a good idea for the government to shut down mobile services to prevent militants and terrorists from communicating, this also restricts the digital freedoms of many ordinary nigerians. the eu, as nigeria’s largest financial donor, should forcefully urge the government to work within the law. the international criminal court is investigating whether boko haram has committed crimes against humanity. the legal path should prevail, as it sets the state apart from those who act outside of the law more clearly and more justly. we should also urge them to change laws. the government should change laws that allow the death penalty and the criminalisation of lgbt people, as they do not only restrict the freedoms and rights of nigerians, but also deny our aid workers and diplomats from the eu the space to work freely. we need to focus on nigeria, which has a lot of great opportunities in terms of resources and human capital. if nigeria develops democratically and successfully into a rule-based society it could be an example for the region: an example in the good sense. similarly, however, an escalation of extremism and violence, together with the wider unrest in the sahel region, could lead to a spillover and a worsening situation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in 2010 this parliament used its new lisbon powers to give consent to the so-called swift (society for worldwide interbank financial telecommunication) agreement with the united states. we did so reluctantly and we had very serious worries. now today we have learnt that the us national security agency (nsa) is actually tapping into computer systems, including those of swift, directly and may have been doing so even back in 2010. so, despite the legal base that we created with the agreement, they still retrieve data directly from the swift computer systems. moreover they state that these data are being used to fight not only terrorism but many other threats – the threat of financial crisis, for example. now, noble as that objective may be, it is way outside the scope of the agreement that we approved. parliament has fought for the power to approve international treaties and we should not be a mere rubber-stamping machine. therefore, we ask this house to modify the item on tomorrow’s agenda on surveillance and press freedom to include a statement by the commission on this situation, asking the commission whether it considers that these facts constitute a clear breach of the agreement and, if so, whether it will commit to a proposal to suspend the agreement.
mr president, if we are going to ask the european commission to first investigate the nsa, maybe three mandates from now it will be in a position to make a statement. i was not calling for a statement on the facts. i am calling on the commission to make a statement – if these facts are indeed confirmed – on whether it considers that this is a breach of the agreement and therefore considers a suspension, not termination, of the agreement to be appropriate.
i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. i couldn't agree more. in 2008, this parliament was already aware of the potential problems of biofuels. the problem of indirect land use related to biofuels was raised by this parliament as early as 2008. we had to abandon this point in the negotiations with the member states and we forced a revision, the revision we are now talking about. so as far as that reliability goes: every party in europe knew this debate was coming. we were going to talk about indirect land use. the question now is: we want to change something, yes or no? and then the big question is: have the signs changed, have they gotten better or worse since we've been boosting biofuels by six billion? it 's obvious . look at developing countries, where land grabbing is happening. just look at the effects on food prices. there are effects from our biofuels policy. we have to change something. if we say, let's think about it again and maybe in five years' time we'll have another debate, do you think the lobbyists will say, "oh, now you're trustworthy"? with that excuse, they'll always arrive. they will always fight against us. we announced it, this is the moment. the signs of indirect land use have only got worse and we must do something about it now! the compromise of mr lepage is a compromise. the commission proposal was worse and it has improved on a few points, but for example reducing the use of crops in food tanks is not in mrs lepage's proposal. that is what we greens would have wanted. we can live with this compromise, and i turn to mrs klaß on the subject of reliability. reliability also means that you will continue to support the compromises we made in the committee on the environment before the summer, and that is reliability.
politics has a very nasty quality. it can have negative side effects. it is a pity that we are then forced to change our policy in the meantime, and that can even affect the credibility of our institution as a political institution. unless those negative side effects are not new and you have pointed them out before, even more so if you have fought hard as a parliament to see those negative side effects discounted in policy much earlier in 2008. because food displacement or those indirect effects like deforestation, they are of course not new. we wanted to have that as a parliament in the 2008 package, as mr eickhout said. but yes, unfortunately we did not get much more than a review from the council after a while. the demands mrs lepage wanted to make in her report on biofuels were therefore the logical consequence of this. in that light, the current package is disappointing. it's too little, too late. because it is a fact that some biofuels are harmful to the environment. and it is of course strange that our policy fails to discourage the use of these harmful biofuels. in fact, it is quite paradoxical that we should even be heavily subsidizing them. mrs lepage has unfortunately had to add a lot of water to the wine. but i shall be inclined to support that compromise. it's a very small step forward, but it's better than stagnation, because stagnation is still regression.
- a writer. − at the beginning of the year, on one of the coldest days, i was walking with a party member of mine in almere. for those of you who don't know, almere is in the netherlands in a polder, land made by the dutch, and it's a city that has yet to grow. it is a city that lies where a lake once was and part of that city is built by the people themselves. it's been cleared, people can build their own houses. what energy was released! if only we could, say, just tap into that light! because people were all saying, i'm going to build the most energy-efficient house, i'm going to build an energy-producing house. there was a tremendous amount of creativity that was unleashed, and that creativity has remained untapped until now. unused in the rest of the netherlands and unused in the rest of europe. we just see that there's enough to tap into. europe, as we have just seen in the previous debate, faces many energy challenges: i would like to thank the commissioner for his report, which is a very good report, and i hope that the commission will be able to support it. the european parliament and the european commission - and i commend you for that - are also working hard on a post-2020 energy policy: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the renewal of the community's nuclear programme. but you and the commission have one very big blind spot. i have raised this matter with you several times over the years. do you have an eye for small? because we did great things in the past, we want to do great things in the future, because it's very difficult to imagine the future differently from the past that you've known. when we think of energy, we think of big. big coal plants, so big sustainability plants. so we all love desertec, a big project in the desert. we like big offshore wind turbines and big works, big infrastructure. but that's a very classic way. that's not disruptive thinking, just seeing something that wasn't there. so stop looking at the big picture. i am not saying that we should stop, but that the real innovation, the real revolution in energy is in the small. small is beautiful. give power, give power to that little consumer. turn him from a consumer into a prosumer. that's small-scale energy. we must provide more information and raise awareness about this. but we do see that once consumers are allowed to produce their own energy, they themselves go to extremes and that a great deal of innovative power is also unleashed. it must be possible to produce this small-scale energy independently of the large energy companies. how does the consumer become a prosumer? so power to the people, because they're very creative. and it can also save money for the consumer. we talk about energy efficiency all the time. how can you be more efficient than if a consumer generates his own energy and thereby becomes aware of his own energy behaviour? but there are many, many barriers. there is too little information about the potential, whereas studies show that by 2050 30% of the uk's energy could come from small-scale energy. what does this mean for the european union? have you ever looked into that? the technology is already there, and so is the consumer. but if the policy and the governments step in, will the european union step in? the investment price is still too high and we see that there are all kinds of obstacles in national legislation, as well as european tax legislation, which prevent all of this. we need a specific policy, both at national and european level. so that's why we asked you these questions. i'm asking you to do three things. make an assessment of what the capacity of small-scale energy in europe really is and what part of our needs can be met by it. come up with a strategy to make the consumer a prosumer in all the member states of the european union. how can we adapt european legislation so that this small-scale energy, this microgeneration, can be included in the 2030 climate and energy package, for example? of course, it is not the only solution. we are now talking about the buzek report. and since i am otherwise overstaying my time, i will now close by thanking my colleagues for their cooperation. mr buzek, we have made an excellent report. i would also like to thank the other colleagues who have worked with us. i'm looking forward to a lot of energy in the future.
"blue card" question. what is it? i hear you say that you would like to see eu legislation implemented more quickly, so is it not a solution to make energy policy european from now on and no longer with directives, but for example with regulations? the commission has already made a number of proposals. can your group support that?
- i'm the reporter. - i am addressing you in dutch and i am doing so very deliberately. it is not because it could not have been done in german or english or whatever, but precisely because we as members of the european parliament already have the disadvantage that we often seem so far removed from our constituents. if there is a journalist or an interested citizen in the netherlands listening at this late hour, i would like him to hear my story in our mother tongue. you will have heard from my story that multilingualism in this european parliament is a great asset. i am proud of our european languages, the 24 official languages of our now 28 member states, but as a native limburgese with a weakness for the frisian language, i also very consciously mention all the minor languages spoken in the european union. i also very consciously do not mention in my report the right of everyone to speak one of the 24 official languages here, even though in this plenary session only 0.1% of the time is spent in estonian and almost 30% of the time in english. i do not touch the right of each individual to express himself in his own language. we have the best interpreters in europe here in the european parliament and a compliment is in order. we often need these interpreters desperately and they must be there. but the other way round is that if we do not need them, if they are not called upon, they do not have to be there and we as a parliament can save costs. a european citizen understands perfectly well that interpreters are needed for us to do our work here. but full cabins, unused, he doesn't understand. especially when you realize that costs $1,025 per person per day. and fortunately, steps have been taken in recent years, for example by meetings in brussels, but also here, to spread the week better. and in that respect it is a pity that we are now talking after 11 o'clock at night, because in the interests of cost-efficiency of the interpretation service we should have finished this debate before 11 o'clock at night. but even if there have been costs, parliament must now act decisively. in my report we point out a number of points where we think action is needed. first of all, tackling - and that really takes priority - late cancellations of meetings. in the case of delegation trips, it is as high as 20%! the cost of these late cancellations can be as high as eur 5 million per year. that's a real cost savings, interpreters getting paid while not using the service. secondly, there is a greater awareness of the fact that the use of interpreters is costly. awareness-raising among staff, among civil servants, but also among parliamentarians themselves. the report makes a number of suggestions on how this awareness could be improved. thirdly, the introduction of interpretation on demand. we simply need to make much more use of it, to know much better which languages need interpretation and to offer only those languages. fourthly, better information to the committee on budgetary control to keep a close eye on the cost developments of this expenditure. we also call on the european court of auditors to review the language regime, not only in the european parliament but also in the council, the commission and the other institutions. the last time this happened was in 2005, but it is urgent that we look at this again. these are some of the suggestions made in the report for a new and more far-reaching decision on multilingualism and also on limiting its costs. i would like to say this explicitly, because that is our main expectation, our main demand, which we are putting forward here. i wish you the best of luck in that regard.
the group, and i myself, take the view that freedom of movement is a great asset in the world and that the european union must therefore open itself up to all kinds of other countries that want to do the same. but there are also things that can go wrong. and every now and then, something goes wrong. it is therefore good that the legislation now being proposed includes a so-called suspension clause, which means that if things go wrong, we can take measures to prevent abuse. that is a very important asset for the liberal group. we also think it is important that if a country abolishes certain arrangements with regard to citizens of the european union, we can respond by doing the same with regard to that other country. as regards the delegated acts, another important point: the group interprets the legislation in the sense that the possibility of delegated acts remains, and we think that is very important. in short, we can support the rapporteur's present proposal. we thank him for his work and we hope that the proposal will be supported by a majority in this house.
during the last seven financial years the european commission has committed far too much money and spent irresponsibly on useless projects. the bills for that are due at the end of the year. the total amount involved is over 11 billion euros. eleven billion euros is what it is! the commission considered that expenditure absolutely necessary and this parliament now says that it is actually still far too little. the national member states should just give a little more money to all those great useless projects. and that demand is being made in the midst of the enormous economic crisis that we are in right now. people no longer know how to make a living, and this parliament thinks that 11 billion euros is the absolute minimum. what a shameful affront to the well-meaning, hardworking citizen, what a low point for democracy, what a ridiculous folly. it's time for an election!
i thank everyone who has been involved in this, but i thank the commissioner in particular, because what she said is true. i feel that she is one of the few in europe who is speaking out about the digital agenda, who wants to do something about it and who is also taking action. i do notice that we still have a lot of words within the member states, but little action, and i am very sorry about that. if i just put it in perspective, it turns out that we are completely dependent on american companies for our digital agenda. then we can talk about privacy. in america, they do what they want and we can only shout, while our entire economy is dependent on the internet at the moment: internet banking, our phone usage, paying taxes, and all sorts of other things that go on the internet. and we europeans have little control over it, over traffic and logistics. so i think it is very soon time for a single market for the digital agenda. now, how do you create that economy that everyone is crying out for? by building consumer confidence. and if you want to build consumer trust, that means you need to know who you're dealing with. there's too much anonymity on the internet, so you don't know what's going on. there's a lot of phishing going on, and so forth. we need that trust, but it's always on a collision course with privacy. i hope that we will make good progress in the coming years and that we will also have european companies in control of this.
mr president, cybersecurity certainly has a different connotation after the nsa revelations, and the eu must take the lead in ensuring that our freedoms are not eroded in the name of security. it should not be zero-sum. the nsa and internet companies’ practice of deliberately degrading encryption is a case in point, and we know technologies cannot be contained in a globally connected world. syria and the united states do not have much in common these days except for their use of surveillance, hacking, tracking, tracing and monitoring technologies. and far too many of those systems are made in europe. we cannot talk about cybersecurity in europe while being digital arms traders. we must end the export and proliferation of digital arms now. we have to close the regulatory vacuum, and that includes curbing the trade in zero-day exploits. we must do so to advance human rights and our own security at home and in the rest of the world.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president ... secret laws, secret courts, secret budgets for secret services, all citizens being watched by the secret services, blanket surveillance, journalists and whistleblowers held on grounds of national security ... surely today’s debate must be about north korea or belarus? oh no, it is about us! it is about the free western world. colleagues, we need to take a very close look at what is happening here because it is very serious. soon this parliament is going to nominate the candidate for the sakharov prize, the prize for freedom of thought. if we want to do so with real moral authority, then we need to clarify and resolve the situation before us. of course, the facts have to be investigated thoroughly – i would never say otherwise – but investigating thoroughly is not the same as turning a blind eye or closing our eyes to reality. our parents, our grandparents and our great-grandparents suffered and gave their lives for freedom and democracy on this continent: we owe it to them to make sure that we and future generations can enjoy the same freedom and the same democracy, not only on paper but in practice. freedom of the media is clearly under threat, because where there is harassment and intimidation it has a chilling effect on the media. it leads to self-censorship. so what matters here is not whether there is only one case or two: this is about the impact on the free media. we know about the miranda case, we know there is a case in germany, we know about whistleblowers like edward snowden and chelsea manning, and many others. they are essential to democracy. they may sometimes be a pain in the ass, mr weber, but they are necessary for democracy. yes, they are breaking the law, but sometimes, mr weber, that is the only way to expose the illegal acts of states – the only way to expose violations of international law and, indeed, of national law and human rights. so we should be dispensing justice to whistleblowers, not revenge. we have seen the abuse of counter-terrorism laws, and we also see, mr weber, abuse of the rules on confidentiality – again to cover up illegal acts by governments, rather than to preserve the rule of law – and it is our job as a parliament to ask critical questions to make sure that these things do not happen again. i would like to ask the commission three things. firstly, as i said yesterday, i would ask it to come forward with a proposal for the immediate suspension of the eu-us terrorist finance tracking programme (tftp) agreement. secondly, i would ask when it intends to start the evaluation of the counter-terrorism policies that this house asked for two years ago, nothing having happened since then. and my last question is this: what does the commission intend to do to ensure proper, strict enforcement, of article 10 of the european convention on human rights, to which the european union is to accede?
this was a purely technical dossier, but there has been debate about its content. but we would like to see a debate based on sound arguments. the eel is not helped by stopping fishing. fortunately, a majority of the committee on fisheries also recognised this. the problem is turbines and mills blocking the way to the sea. member states must rebuild these barriers, and they must do so as a matter of priority. until then, we must help the eel 'over the dike'. last year in the netherlands, more than 4000 adult eels were put over the dike by fishermen for a small fee, partly from the european fisheries fund. everything is completely transparent and controlled. that really helped the eel. this year, as many as 25,000 adult eels are expected to be put over the levee. ready for the journey to the sargasso sea. these initiatives and the fishermen deserve our full cooperation.
the eu is threatening to ruin sea fishing with its insane shift towards a landing obligation, and it seems that the eel fishery is now in the lead. there must be control plans and, of course, all of this must be very sustainable. the young eels must be helped over dikes and past hydropower turbines and pumps. and now the great proposal of this parliament. i quote literally: "at a time when fishermen are looking for alternative jobs, their skills can be used to speed up the recovery of europe's eel stock". i have to say: this is breaking my balls! first, to make the fisherman suffer under european regulations and then to drag him across the dike with buckets of eel. you're not making it up, except for this parliament. it reminds me of an old dutch nursery rhyme. "bring two buckets of algae, two buckets of pumps, fishermen on the stumps, eu on a wooden leg, drive through my street".
what initially seemed a very small formality in relation to the question of how we as institutions deal with each other in the context of lisbon has, however, had a substantive impact in the debate today. if you see 90% of the population declining, we should be on top of that. people also speak to us when they see what else is being exported. there was talk of a black market in small glasses to other parts of the world. then something is wrong, something is profoundly wrong, and that has to do with keeping promises. that is why the european parliament does not want to stay away from this type of delegated act. we want to stay on top of it and also be able to intervene wherever possible and necessary. in the netherlands, for example, a lot is happening. these plans for control, the laying of foundations, the removal of obstacles, all of this is done with great commitment. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. so there are opportunities, but we have to do it together, close to the citizen. this is a good example of where we can really make a difference. and of course, we want you to come back with your evaluation this autumn.
mr barroso seems to think he has done a good job, but does he dare to say so in the street? what planet are you living on, mr barroso? europe is a social and economic battleground, and the european union cannot hide behind the global crisis. the world economy is growing, while europe is shrinking, and europe alone. the european union is the cause of this crisis, not the solution. fortunately, there is still a glimmer of hope, and that is the european elections next year. then the voter will draw a line in the sand and say: enough is enough! the citizens are tired of being the guinea pigs of this absurd experiment. we are tired of this undemocratic monster and we are tired of the parties that have sold us out to the eu. we are on the eve of an electoral earthquake. winter is over, spring is coming, the european spring is near!
in writing. - while the report rightly points out the need for directives to be implemented by the member states, i am very disappointed that there is no reference whatsoever to the need to respect social rights. i am also against the privatisation of welfare services, which the report calls for. that is why i abstained.
the debate here in the british house of commons, in the us congress about what to do about syria, whether or not to intervene militarily and what the consequences of that would be, is sincere. it seems sincere to me. it's being handled with care. considerations are being made, no one has the definitive answer. you see it in the papers too. however, i find the debate on what to do with all the refugees from syria and in syria less sincere in the european union. today, the first hundred syrian refugees arrive in germany. that's good news for a hundred people. that is not true of lebanon and jordan, and of course not of turkey, but for a hundred souls it is good news. in the netherlands, there are about 50 asylum seekers. they should be allowed to come, but that would have to be deducted from the quota we give to unhcr every year, so fewer asylum seekers from kenya. i think there is one thing we can do, and that is to take in vulnerable asylum seekers in the european union. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
"blue card" is the answer. may i congratulate my colleague on this gesture? and that includes, for example, a country like sweden. it's just a little painful to talk about numbers. i used this example to illustrate the problem in my own country, which is very reluctant. i keep saying that we can do more and i would like to point out to you, for example, greece, where syrians are still being put in prison. and we are not helping the greeks to bring about that kind of relief. so my call stands and i accept my colleague's correction.
early this morning, i was in my parliamentary study watching a video recording of the funeral of three young men from the historic syrian mountain town of maaloula, a pilgrimage site for christians and muslims. according to eyewitnesses in maaloula, jihadists, most of them non-syrians, are spreading death and destruction. residents of maaloula are given the choice between converting to islam or beheaded. is the high representative also aware of the maaloula issue and the situation there? what is equally troubling to me is the attitude of the european union and its candidate for accession, turkey, towards the 'religious purges' in syria, especially when such war crimes are directly linked to jihadists from our own continent, europe, such as german jihadists at the beginning of august. high representative, are brussels and ankara simply going to continue to support rebels even though they turn out to be terrorists who tolerate only one religion, islam, in syria? i would like to hear your views on the dual european commitment and responsibility for the syrian suffering, the syrian suffering and the syrian drama.
mr president, we must welcome the opportunity to explore a un-supported deal to end the use of chemical weapons by assad, yet many major problems remain: a humanitarian disaster, the growth of terrorist and extremist militia, regional fragility and the risk of spillover and the malfunctioning of the un security council to uphold agreed principles. we cannot allow assad to see meeting demands on chemical weapons as a licence to kill by other means. that has been the status quo for the past two and a half years. the war is not over and syria has become the bloody theatre of major geopolitical power play. let us not be naive. the eu ought to play a more prominent and strategic role, a leading role, by acting as a global player. we can do more to end death and to defend the universal values the eu stands for. we cannot allow russia and the united states to act over our heads while the eu is fragmented, weak, risks losing relevance and is incapable because we lack our own military capacity. high representative ashton, i would like to ask you: what role for the eu in going forward? what are your plans on diplomacy? are you intending to talk about syria with iran? what can we do to avoid regional spillovers, specifically in lebanon, for example by adding more troops to the un mandate there? what pressure can we apply? how can we uphold the responsibility to protect and reform the un security council? these are some ideas in which the eu can take a much stronger lead.
i would like to join in the compliments paid to mrs ashton for bringing all the european countries together at this difficult time. as i look at today's debate, i remember a visit to one of the refugee camps where a refugee said to me: "ma'am, when will the international community stop this killing machine?" at this moment, 100,000 people have been killed, three million people are on the run. what is the international community doing? and how do people who are on the run view that international community? do we offer them hope? i'm not in favor of intervention, but i'm saying that the diplomatic plan should have every chance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, in the turmoil that egypt has gone through in the past two-and-a-half years, and especially during diplomatic efforts last summer, the eu has taken a lead role and has managed to stay in touch with most of the key stakeholders. this is a position that we ought to seek to maintain as we urge the interim government to hold an independent inquiry into the excessive use of force that killed muslim brotherhood demonstrators, and also urge the muslim brotherhood leaders, in turn, not to glorify violence and death, for example by calling for martyrdom. political prisoners must be released and there should be no military trials for civilians. i am very concerned about reports that the 6 april movement’s offices have been raided, that activists have continued to be harassed by different governments and that journalists cannot do their work safely. this polarisation must be overcome for the sake of egypt. there must be a transition, in an inclusive way, to parliamentary elections and a constitutional process. the rule of law, and laws in general, must protect the rights and freedoms of all egyptians, whether they be representatives of civil society, women, members of the press or of minorities, or others. no emergency laws will guarantee the rights and freedoms of the egyptian people. checks and balances cannot come from the streets but must be embedded in laws. it is essential, and it is in our european interest, to help egypt recover socially, politically and economically. for that, stability is essential. a young generation of egyptians is desperately in need of prospects for shaping their own lives. i believe that a strong partnership with a new egypt is still possible but it must be based on values. the eu must continue to state clearly that we have the egyptian people, rather than our own policies, at heart, and that they are the focus regardless of which governments may come and go. we must ensure, too, that there are sufficient safeguards and that there is accountability for the funds we will transfer to egypt when the time is right. you have the support of this parliament, baroness ashton, and i hope we can move forward constructively. i would appreciate it, too, if you could say a few words about the situation in sinai, which is also of great concern.
for the greens/efa group since the revolution in january 2011, the european union has been working to re-evaluate our relationship with egypt. the morsi government could count on our support, even though we did not find an islamist government particularly attractive. the first democratically elected president deserves the benefit of the doubt. we even invited him to come and speak here. it didn't. but the eu-egypt task force was promising. but morsi didn't make it happen. and the mass demonstrations in june this year should have led to his voluntary resignation. the fact that he was deposed by force and that the egyptians seemed to be happy with the intervention of the army, in my view, proves how far we are still from democracy in egypt. but what still amazes me after two and a half months is that here too there seems to be relief that we are rid of the muslim brotherhood instead of being ashamed and seeing the shame of a coup d'état. what we blamed on morsi, too little inclusion, too little people-taking, authoritarian tendencies, we now see and we seem to be softening. and i think that's dangerous. of course we must re-engage with the current government, but we must not cover up what has happened in the last few months under their authority and we must show our democratic side.
in recent months we have watched with horror the fighting in egypt. but far from all the cameras, a second, perhaps even greater, drama was taking place. pogroms took place all over the country against coptic churches, schools, and businesses. the perpetrators have barely been caught. the police would stand by and watch. the attacks on the copts were accompanied by ominous threats and ultimately aimed at the ausradierung of this ancient community. mrs ashton, i would like to present you with a letter signed by colleagues from almost all the groups here. we ask you to organize a fact-finding mission, led by the european representation in cairo. that mission should look into what's happened to the copts, especially in minya. and let that mission also come up with recommendations on how we can better support the copts. the coptic community is in dire need of our prayers and assistance. ora et labora for the copts.
mr president, it is very understandable that today our biggest concern is the situation in syria, but this should not divert our attention from egypt. egypt has been in a spiral of violence and human rights breaches since the crackdown on demonstrations followed by the military coup. it is of no relevance on which side the demonstrators are; we condemn any attack on those who protest peacefully, risking their lives to demand more jobs or democracy. we need to break the vicious circle of economic difficulty and political instability. on the one hand an inclusive constitutional process should be a priority. it is crucial that women are a significant part of this process. the revolution has been stolen from them. the same mistakes should not be repeated. on the other hand, economic recovery is vital. it is important that we help with the improvement of the economic situation since a stable economic environment is crucial for a stable political atmosphere.
europe is facing the deepest crisis in its post-war history. but the european union is still dreaming of an eu army. the eu cannot yet be trusted with a water pistol. lady ashton or barroso at the head of an eu army, i must not think of it. setting up our own headquarters is going to cost a lot of money, all paid for by the eu budget, of course, so even more money to brussels. we already have a security organization, which is just down the road in brussels, called: the nato. nato has for decades been very successful in ensuring peace and security in europe. we do not need another wasteful project from the eu, because it is so eager to be a superstate with its own army. the dutch armed forces remain entirely in national hands and where we cooperate, we do so bilaterally and in nato. a union army: never that!
mr rouček rightly referred to the cold war, because relations with russia are cold and mr putin will undoubtedly do his best to bring the temperature below freezing at the forthcoming summit in vilnius. let us face it, he has already forced poor, isolated armenia to opt for the russian economic community. and moldova is now the victim of that wine war. and the ukraine, what's putin going to do about it? it is the export restrictions, the trade war, that are his tools, along with his tough language. but russia is shooting itself in the foot. because russia also benefits from a stable region there. and let's face it, the european union is russia's largest trading partner by far. let putin realize that too. i am pleased with the firmness of commissioner füle's language. but this must also be countered by more intensive diplomatic contacts with russia, because only in this way can we finally make the vilnius summit a success.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, after 18 years of negotiations, suddenly in october 2010 we saw white smoke, and i was there to witness it: suddenly there was agreement on the nagoya protocol. the deadlock between those seeking access to genetic resources and those who wanted to share those resources better had suddenly gone, and we – the commission, the member states and the members of this house – applauded because it was a victory for biodiversity in the future, and ratification was the last tiny hurdle yet to be taken. however, that now seems slightly more difficult than had been foreseen because, in the last couple of days especially, many companies active in the use of genetic resources seem to have difficulties. is their main concern legal uncertainty or do many of them have second thoughts on the sharing of the benefits? that is not clear yet, but a few things are important to notice: first of all the target of this proposal is the users who are conducting research and development on genetic resources. so farmers and traders are not directly concerned, and the breeders’ exemptions and all other guarantees through food and agricultural organisation treaties are secured. this brings me to the key point, which for some groups is also, apparently, the red line of this report: that is, new utilisation. i have been told that without including new utilisation this document is a paper tiger because 90% of all genetic resources are already secured in collections, so without new utilisation we are talking only about the remaining 10%. what then is the use of such a thing? i would therefore ask the commission whether this is true. without new utilisation, are we creating a paper tiger or do you seriously believe this is a step towards improved access and better benefit-sharing and a huge step forward for biodiversity?
for the ppe group
in writing. - i cannot support the thyssen report on european banking supervision. this european supervision is the first pillar of a banking union. the banking union is clearly problematic. weak banks must be recapitalised before they can join the banking union. the question is whether the crisis countries themselves have the money for this recapitalisation. in short, there is a great danger that banks with insufficient capital will enter the banking union. the pre-banking union approach to bad loans is therefore not guaranteed. the size of the capital requirement is unknown to economists. dijsselbloem also confirmed in brussels last week that we do not know. first, the figures must be put on the table so that we can talk fairly about the distribution of the bill. the banking union is also part of a larger package of building blocks proposed by president van rompuy. it also includes economic union, budgetary union and political union, including a stronger position of the european parliament. the sgp group does not think this is a good idea, because the national parliaments deserve to be at the centre. it is up to the member states to implement the necessary cuts and reforms to restore competitiveness and the economy.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, once again we must address the human rights situation in bahrain. for those who wonder why and suggest that we look at saudi arabia’s human rights violations instead, i would like to remind them that saudi arabia is very closely advising – and even rolling tanks into the streets of bahrain – and helping the bahraini government. but instead of seeking dialogue or releasing political prisoners, the parliament and the king of bahrain have now banned the right to peaceful assembly in the capital altogether. we should remind them that certainly not all who oppose government practices are terrorists or helped by iran. there should not be juveniles in adult detention facilities and under no circumstances can there be torture. the implementation of the bici recommendations and the un periodic review are long overdue. the bahraini government should stop revoking citizenship and should release political prisoners, beginning with those with eu citizenship. both sides in a deeply polarised society in bahrain must step over their own shadow and come together in dialogue for the sake of the future of the country. the media must be free. it is not, and this is very polarising at the moment. it is very disappointing that the special rapporteur for torture has been denied access. similarly, digital freedoms are curbed, sadly also with the help of eu-made technologies, which have been used to help track and trace human rights defenders. a stronger response from the eu is needed. it will not come from the united states. i also think that this house should be more vocal in pressing for human rights for all bahrainis before proxies like saudi arabia continue to use it as a playing field for their power games.
mr president, today we have seen once again how alien to the world the environmental fundamentalists in our parliament are. the commission is also calling for the eu to be able to take action to combat climate change, and for the eu to be able to take action to combat climate change. the european parliament has already rejected this proposal, but our environmentalists seem to be relentless. even the european commissioner for industry, tajani, recognises the great danger of the ets. he spoke of an impending industrial slaughter. all progress and european entrepreneurship is being sacrificed by the green left to the environment. my colleague is clearly a deeply ecological person. i would almost feel sorry for him if it were not for the fact that his words and actions are very damaging to our future in general and to that of our enterprises in particular, such as aviation. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european commission has unfortunately not achieved a good result in the negotiations on the fisheries protocol with mauritania. this is a pity, not only for the european sector, but also for employment in mauritania. a lot of people have been unemployed in the ports for the last year. on 17 and 18 september the commission received a few more commitments from mauritania, but the results for the pelagic fleet are still insufficient. the commission is negotiating on behalf of all eu countries and must therefore reach an acceptable deal for all fleets. that's our criticism. perhaps the annual compensation of eur 67 million should be linked to the extent to which fishing opportunities are used. can the commission comment on this idea? if that amount is also linked to actual use (as are the per tonne amounts paid by the shipowners themselves), there is a greater incentive for mauritania to sell us a good product instead of a cat in the bag.
mrs mcavan, first of all, thank you very much for your report. it is estimated that 700 000 people die from smoking every year. it has been mentioned a number of times, but it remains a terribly high figure. the tobacco industry, however, prefers to think in terms of other figures, namely profit figures. i'm not the one. i support all measures which discourage people, especially young people, from smoking. and how many smoking parents do not hope that their child will never start? that is the essence of this proposal. we don't ban smoking, we don't take away anyone's job or their job. this is purely a matter of public health. the huge lobby that has been from the tobacco industry. i've received hundreds of letters. e-mails from tobacco and packaging manufacturers. in the past few weeks, i've even been getting free large packages of shag sent to me by lobbyists. i think that kind of deadly gift crosses a line, and i immediately put a return label on it. no fancy or small packages, no added flavorings, no advertising slogans that entice people to start smoking. we also need to be very careful about substitute products, which are designed to keep smoking as a habit. e-cigarettes may be a potential means of helping people quit smoking, but they must be safe. now, finally, this proposal is going to be voted on and i hope that public health will prevail and not the mass lobby.
mr president, smoking is a choice, just like religion. if the eu is consistent, it will also come up with proposals to put warning texts on bibles and the koran. after all, religion has been many times more deadly than smoking ever will be. i have enjoyed smoking for almost 20 years, although i am only 33. it's my hobby, i still enjoy it every day and i'm also very good at smoking, if i may say so myself. we smokers contribute enormously to the public finances. if everyone stopped smoking, all the countries in the eu would go bankrupt. instead of thanking for this, smokers are constantly being hounded by health scoundrels. (a voice is heard in the audience.) you can also flash a blue card instead of shouting across the room. the tobacco directive, mr president, is a perfect example of 'bullying' by useless politicians who have nothing better to do than to poke around in every square inch.
mr president, i am surprised to be listening to this debate. because what are we talking about here? it is not about banning smoking, as some people say. this is about better regulating what we do with smoking. smoking that is deadly, which has been proven time and time again. what we are trying to do is to get the right information on the labels, to get all the flavors that entice people to smoke banned, to get better regulation of e-cigarette use. that's the whole point. and all these claims about all kinds of jobs being lost, what are we talking about exactly? it's a big money industry right now. the jobs that are probably under the most pressure are the jobs of the 161 philip morris lobbyists. that's what we're talking about. i do not understand why we have had to postpone the examination of this report for a month. let's get to the voting and the negotiating table. this legislation is badly needed in europe. - what?
thank you, mr president. 700,000 deaths a year from smoking. that is the same as the population of cities like lisbon, seville, or riga. that huge number needs to be reduced and this directive is helping to do that. we must not let our health go up in smoke. i also think it's important that tobacco tastes like tobacco and looks like tobacco. for example, additives to cigarettes containing flavourings or vitamins should be prohibited. they're deceptive. they suggest that smoking is good or less harmful to health, which is of course absolutely not the case. young people seem to be sensitive to those flashy packages or those added flavors. for example, adding a chocolate flavor to tobacco reduces the real pungent taste of tobacco and makes young people more likely to become addicted. we shouldn't do that. that is why we must have stronger warnings on the packaging. in canada, it's been a huge success. so i'm going to advocate that.
mr president, we are trying to discourage smoking, we all think that the cost of public health is too high. with this oral amendment i would like to call on the member states to reserve the revenue from tobacco taxes directly for public health in their country. so i hope that if members agree to this, they will not be hypocritical and reject it for procedural reasons, but simply want to support it. because i think it is important that the money that is generated by tobacco sales, which costs the public health a lot of money, is also used to benefit that public health.
unfortunately, the european parliament cannot yet give the council a discharge. the european parliament decides on discharge to the commission and the other institutions which implement the eu budget, including the council of ministers and the european council. regulation 966/2012 provides that the other institutions shall make every effort to act on the observations accompanying the european parliament's discharge decision. for some years now the council has not sufficiently answered questions or requests for information from the european parliament and has therefore not cooperated constructively. this hinders the european parliament in deciding on discharge. finally, i call on the council and the commission to continue to implement the commitment to make the member states' declarations of expenditure. if ministers take adequate responsibility for how eu money is spent in their member state, this will definitely help to ensure sound financial management.
of course, this parliament cannot give the council a discharge. if the council refuses in principle to give information to the discharge authority, we simply cannot grant discharge. i wonder why that is. does the council have something to hide? if the president, the vice-president and the secretary-general of this parliament are accountable to the committee on budgetary control for the use of parliament's money, all of them in public, why can the council not do the same? does he feel too bound by a gentlemen's agreement? we're not talking about each other's budgets? if that is the case, i think that gentlemen's agreement should be thrown out as soon as possible, because every european institution must - as far as i am concerned - be held accountable to the public for the use of the money of the citizens. if the council refuses to do so, it sends a bad signal to the citizens of the member states they represent.
the pvv confirms that there are serious doubts about the council's 2011 annual reports. the european parliament has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the pvv therefore abstained on this dossier.
we are having this debate just before the autumn summit and for the first time it is about development and r & d, and not about the crisis. i'm very happy about that. we still have to establish that we are not training enough technologists and that there is still a brain drain. that's not solved. there are also areas within the union where people are moving away. that's not good, and it needs to be better. last week i was invited to lead the fifth knowledge4innovation innovation summit and there is a lot of interest in the question of 'how to turn knowledge into information and products'. mrs. geoghegan-quinn, you wanted to ask. i got a couple. what is the role of the eit? what progress has been made in the joint research centres in europe? what do you want to achieve with the synergy between the structural funds and the research funds, especially the smart specialisation? finally, the esfri - i hear so little about it - research infrastructures. we're still shredding way too much. the euro can only be spent well once.
mr president, it is the right time to open negotiations on a direct investment treaty between the eu and china to substitute the current 26 existing bilateral treaties between china and eu member states. eu-china trade has drastically increased over the past couple of years. however, total eu investments in china are seven times larger than vice-versa, and at the same time european businesses need new capital. that is why we should remove investment barriers and agree on clear rules of the road. china has indicated that the market access chapter could be included in a direct investment agreement, which is a precondition for opening the negotiations. there is a large list of current obstacles for european companies looking to do business in china – whether it is discrimination, complex tariff structures or technical barriers to trade – and this should end. as a member of the wto, china is bound to open its markets, enable a level playing field and allow fair competition. this will eventually also benefit european consumers and businesses, particularly smes. as i mentioned, i support the negotiations but urge for strict criteria for transparency, respect for human rights, environmental laws and labour standards. these should be a crucial part of any agreement. goods that are made in labour camps should fall outside of the scope of a new deal, and the eu should insist that human rights and the rule of law feature more prominently on the political agenda of the annual eu-china summit. if these demands are not met, i am sure that this parliament will not endorse such an agreement.
president, mr de gucht, ladies and gentlemen, the opening of trade negotiations with china is an important step for the european union. this would be the first investment protection agreement of its kind since the treaty of lisbon and the union's powers. this agreement has many benefits for europe. it creates a level playing field between member states and also makes us stronger as an eu. at the same time, it will be easier for chinese investors to develop their activities in europe, and that is something we can also use well in this period. that is an important point. this agreement pursues mutual interests and should therefore also effectively ensure that those mutual interests are safeguarded. but that can only happen if we create a level playing field for european and chinese companies. i therefore also think it is important to include strong social and environmental clauses in the investment agreement and to make them a condition for the signing of this agreement. it cannot be that - and i have seen this with reach - that the chinese government takes over the rules and imposes them only on european investors, while chinese companies are subject to a completely different set of rules. i think that is not possible, mr president, because that would be dumping. we must ensure that the concept of reciprocity is very clearly defined in all aspects of this agreement.
mr president, about a month ago the european chamber of commerce in china published its annual position paper on the people's republic of china. as in previous years, the document does not give a rosy picture of the chinese market. if certain barriers to foreign companies were removed, others were put in their place. the main obstacle is and remains unequal market access. in recent years, european investors have been faced with structural barriers. in most cases, the situation has not improved but rather worsened. i therefore call on the commissioner to make a strong case for the position of european companies in the negotiations. market access is not a one-way street! (the president declared the speaker willing to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. mr president, i believe that investment and trade are closely intertwined. if you look at what is happening in shanghai at the moment, where there is a liberalisation, a free trade area, it will be interesting to see whether the investments made there actually lead to better trading conditions and better market access. i don't think you can separate that. i'm not an economist. i did take a little economics in my high school education and i'm a historian, so i'm kind of into it. and you can't just separate the two.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. the call for stronger trade relations between the eu and taiwan is therefore not a dream for me. two years ago, in this plenary session - and the commissioner referred to this - there was also a debate on trade relations with taiwan. from this position i then advocated an upgrade of relations towards a free trade agreement or trade-promotion measures. now, two years later, i regret to say that nothing has happened. and that's with the economic benefits being unquestionable. closer trade relations between the eu and taiwan are also in line with the current trade trend between beijing and taipei! in short, deepening and broadening trade relations between the eu and taiwan would be of absolute benefit to both sides.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i would like to thank malcolm harbour for his intensive cooperation. the fact that the committee on the internal market unanimously adopted this report shows that it has done an excellent job. i often have my doubts about the impact assessments we have in the committee, because i think they usually go into the vertical archive and are not used. but this is a positive exception. i am glad that the commissioner or the commission has also taken up our proposals and our impact assessments. this will improve safety for users and the environment. i think it is a jewel of the single market when it comes to pleasure boats and watercraft. safety for users is improving. and i am glad that malcolm harbour has asked the commission to look at my proposal to examine the possibility of introducing a european boat licence. not only do vessels need to be safe, but those who operate them need to know what requirements they must meet. i hope to hear from the commission soon what it thinks of that proposal. i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the council of ministers is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's internal market is not undermined.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the two million refugees outside syria, the four million refugees inside syria, the shelter in turkey, in jordan, in lebanon. and what is the european union's response? we are pulling our purses and we are praying for the willingness of jordan, turkey, lebanon to take in these refugees. we will then pull out the wallet again, we will probably pull out the wallet again, we will kneel down once more for the shooting prayer and that will be that. the unhcr has received commitments from europe to take in 8 000 refugees. mr verhofstadt mentioned a few countries in europe which are doing their best to do so, germany and sweden. there is indeed one country that has pledged to take in 50 refugees that is my own country 50 refugees in 2013! and that is a shame. but most countries in europe have never done resettlement, and they're not doing it now. one of these countries is belgium. but one of those countries is lithuania. and we have a lithuanian minister here who has told us what the council has been doing and will be doing. that's like pulling the wallet. but it would be such a gesture, mr president, if you were to say here that lithuania is also going to resettle 50, 100, 150 refugees from syria and is asking our colleagues from 27 countries to do something about it. and if that were to happen, it would also make it much easier for us to have a dialogue with jordan, lebanon and turkey, because pulling out the pocketbook is not the only solution. if we do not start to move generously, then disasters like the one we saw last week at lampedusa will become more and more frequent. this was a big disaster, this wasn't the first disaster. if it is the season there, we know that people drown in the mediterranean every day. as long as europe does not make it possible to seek asylum, for example in embassies, or to resettle generously, this will continue. i hope that the lithuanian presidency will make a gesture.
mr president, for two and a half years we have been eye-witnesses to the horrible war in syria, and politically and diplomatically the eu has stood on the sidelines while syrians are facing the worst atrocities of what looks more and more like a proxy war that risks destabilising the entire middle east. there is no solution in sight, and no deal on chemical weapons will end the humanitarian disaster, which will be on our doorsteps for years. the numbers of internally displaced persons and refugees and their situations are staggering. the eu has a lead role in offering funding for humanitarian support and i would like to compliment commissioner georgieva for her efforts and her leadership. but we must strategise and organise and especially act with all stakeholders, so i am glad to see that the eu will lead and organise a conference to meet the unprecedented appeal of the united nations, of which only one-third has been covered, which deals merely with food, shelter, medicine and other basic needs. we must step beyond the disgraceful discussions such as those in the netherlands, as to whether we would take 50 or 250 people into our countries, while a country like lebanon takes in 6 000 people a day, the majority of whom are girls and women. winter is coming and we cannot leave these people standing in the cold.
madam president, the murder of pavlos fyssas by a golden dawn militant is a horrific act and a politically-motivated murder which has far-reaching repercussions for greek society. this is not a single incident, nor is it a specifically greek problem. in 2012 in florence, italy, a sympathiser of the extreme right killed two street traders of african descent and wounded three. in germany it came to light that there have been systematic killings of citizens of turkish descent by extreme right sympathisers, and we all remember the horrific murders on utøya, norway. it is a tendency across europe, and we need to act jointly before more citizens become victims of extremists. that is why i would like to ask the commission when it intends to launch an investigation into far-right and neo-nazi networks across europe. in order to prevent hate crimes, what action is the commission going to take in order to make it clear that racial discrimination and violence are utterly unacceptable in europe?
- i'm the reporter. - in the previous debate the name was mentioned several times: it's the euro. that is probably one of the most important things we are going to decide on tomorrow in the preceding debate. what is the main objective of eurosur? we want to create a common framework for the exchange of information and cooperation that is much more effective than what is currently in place. and why are we doing that? we want to avoid illegal immigration wherever possible. we want to prevent crossborder crime from happening. but - and this is the most important point that parliament has made - we want to have better possibilities for saving lives, especially in the mediterranean. the last point is one of the most important points raised by the european parliament. it is in article 1 and article 2 of the regulation, but also in several places in the text, that reference is made to the need to save human lives. we are talking about the external borders of europe. and then we literally think of the borders with the neighbouring countries. as regards external borders, we can also speak of airports in certain countries. and the regulation provides that, if member states so wish, they can also be considered as such and participate in it. there has also been much debate in parliament on the inclusion of fundamental human rights in the eurosur convention: the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament and the council are able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the union. you can find them in various places in the text and parliament attaches great importance to them. the national coordination centres will be established in each member state of the union and will collect information primarily from the authorities currently responsible for protecting the external borders in that country. we hope that it will lead to improved cooperation in the country itself, because even there the services do not always work together. this information will be passed on to frontex in warsaw and in turn frontex will pass on all useful information to the member states as soon as possible. they should then see if they can use the frontex situation chart to improve the situation. frontex will also be able to play a role in ensuring that certain member states receive assistance or not. the new regulation also allows us to use military information. this military information is not automatically available, but according to the principle of 'what is necessary to know in order to implement it successfully'. experience will show how this will develop in practice. i have already pointed out the importance which parliament attaches to the protection of privacy. it clearly states that information can only be exchanged with other authorities in case of emergency. the european parliament also attaches great importance to the use of existing eu institutions, the european satellite centre, the european fisheries agency, the european maritime safety agency and so on. and above all, better cooperation with neighbouring countries. it has been mentioned a great deal in the previous debate. we leave open the possibility of appointing certain people in the european union embassies to monitor the refugee situation in the country concerned. they can then discuss with the government what can be done about it. there is an opportunity to work with the united kingdom and ireland. in short, i can only recommend this report to the house. i think it's a good report. and i would like to end by thanking my shadow rapporteurs and their staff, who have played a very fine role in bringing about this agreement.
rapporteur. − madam president, first i want to thank everybody for their contributions to this debate and for the kind words that were sometimes spoken. as i said earlier, i can recommend the agreement to this house. that implies automatically that i reject all the amendments, even the amendments from the greens. i do not think that they will improve the text; the saving of human lives is treated in great detail in the text, so an extra amendment does not make it better, and on top of that, if it were adopted, it would jeopardise the whole agreement that we have at the moment and i do not think that is worth it. i think we have to start with eurosur as quickly as possible, so i would strongly advise this house not to vote for the amendments by the green group, despite their very valuable contribution and their active participation. thank you all very much. i hope that after tomorrow we will have a eurosur regulation.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, my ppe colleague has just said that we need the facts and that we must not rush to conclusions. i absolutely agree, and therefore it is all the more remarkable that no investigation has taken place at all. not a single member state has asked the cyber-crime unit of europol, the institution that should be investigating, to investigate. not even the dutch government, in the country where the main server of swift is located, has investigated. no, the dutch government says: ‘no, we shall leave this to a working group of experts’. these are civil servants meeting behind closed doors and they are being told by the americans that everything is fine: ‘of course we have not broken into your servers!’ however, my dear ppe colleague, the indications are very strong: strong enough for us not to rely on ‘scout’s honour’ or on the declarations by swift, but for us to investigate – to actually go to the swift site and the swift servers and investigate. why have the member states not asked europol to investigate? why do we not insist? why does the commission not insist that the dutch government investigates on the spot what has happened? frankly, we no longer have any reason to trust the americans. we have had not just media reports but also the documents that were retrieved by mr snowden. as a matter of fact, the americans have never actually denied the accusation. they say they have not had unauthorised access to the swift server, but they also say they reserve the right to have such access. that in itself is a breach of the agreement and i very much agree with my colleague ms sippel: if we do not decide to terminate the agreement right now, then we should at least suspend it and take the time to investigate. and one final thing: i would say to the commissioner and to the empty chair of the council – the familiar empty chair of the council – that this issue is also about something else. this was the first serious international agreement approved under the lisbon treaty. it was the first agreement on which we were asked for consent. the problem is that once we have signed what is essentially a blank cheque we are out of the game, but we will be asked by the commission and the council to give consent to further international agreements, so this is a test case. if this house adopts a statement calling for the suspension or termination of the agreement, and the commission and the council do not react accordingly, that means that this house is not being taken seriously, and it will not give its consent to future agreements. this is about democracy in europe.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, i am delighted to hear that you want to get the facts. would you then agree to calling for an official investigation by the cybercrime unit in europol? actually your party in the uk, on behalf of the government, might ask for such an investigation. if you do not trust us, if you do not trust the european parliament, then you should trust europol. secondly, you say that it is essential for security and the fight against terrorism; but secretary cohen himself in his letter acknowledges that the data is being used for things unrelated to terrorism. would you agree that the americans would have the right to use the data for purposes unrelated to terrorism?
blue-card question. – mr voss, everybody here is mentioning facts. many claims have been made about the usefulness and the necessity of this data for the fight against terrorism. these claims are completely unfounded, but nevertheless, my question to you is, will your group and your government support an investigation by the europol cybercrime unit? because neither you nor i are experts. neither you nor i have been inside swift. we have not been able to look on the server. do you not think we should leave it to the real experts – the it experts – to investigate on the spot whether there has been unauthorised access or the possibility thereof? will you support that proposal?
i would like to start by - although this is a bit against my habit - complimenting the commissioner on the way she is handling this dossier. i think the americans are very pleased that commissioner malmström is following this case closely. i'm not running away from the prehistory of the tftp treaty. i also know that the dutch people are extremely concerned about what is happening here. and of course, the title of this debate already suggests it: everything we've been through with the nsa these past few weeks doesn't make this any easier. but i think we should also consider the scope of this treaty. to put everything into privacy and counterterrorism tonight seems to me to be too narrow a base. i would therefore ask the commissioner: what is the economic value of this agreement? we're talking about a critical infrastructure provider here. and i suppose this is just as well as it gets. the ease with which delays, cancellations, cancellations, temporary suspensions, etc. are being requested here, etc. - what ? again, a balanced balance of interests, especially when it comes to privacy and counterterrorism, is important. but let's also have the honesty to say at some point, "we also have economic interests here, namely good payment flows with the rest of the world". and that's what swift can provide.
if there is one sector in europe which understands the importance of open borders and the free movement of persons, it is the organized crime in our continent. if you look at what is happening in europe at the moment, and certainly in my country, the netherlands, with its open borders, you can say that we are very naive in a number of respects. the influence of organised crime in europe is unfortunately very great. we just arrested a heavy-handed mafia kid in the netherlands, who's been living in a flat in nieuwegein for years. thanks to that exchange of information, he was eventually arrested. i very much agree with my colleague mr aguilar that the prüm convention and the exchange of data in connection with it are of great importance in the fight against crime. but the question for the commissioner is: "why is it taking so long to implement? several colleagues say that only 11 countries have now implemented the convention. when's the rest of it? i'll get back to that in a minute. i also agree with aguilar that democratic control of this fight against crime must be strengthened. i understand now from the commissioner that she says: "i won't do that until everyone has implemented it". the question is: when is that? and can we wait for that?
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report. i think she has also very well illustrated the scale of the problem. when we talk about caste discrimination, we are talking about groups of people who are marked for the rest of their lives by their birth and are treated differently. that's the violation of the most basic of human rights. after all, we want equal rights for everyone. we want freedom of religion, freedom of belief, the right to development and we do not want lock-ups that only lead to poverty, hopelessness and other misery. it affects an estimated 260 million people worldwide. discrimination on the basis of caste is very deeply rooted in caste societies. even if there is legislation to end these practices, the impunity and lack of implementation of that legislation ensures that the caste system continues. my colleague mitchell just said it: we must act with all the means at our disposal. i therefore feel - and i myself have put a number of questions to the european external action service - that we also need to do much more with our embassies, not only to indicate what is happening, but also to try to combat that system with small projects. i think, mr president, that we should do more in our agreements with those countries, and that goes beyond the human rights dialogue. i would be very pleased if the edeo would publish on its website for each country annually what it is doing, what projects it is promoting, and how it is dealing with the authorities to put an end to this problem, caste discrimination.
- a writer. - mr president, it is clear that the position of lgbt people in russia is deteriorating day by day. you shudder at the images on youtube of people being beaten and humiliated in all sorts of ways because of their sexual orientation. unfortunately, this kind of intolerance and violence is increasingly common in many countries, including eu member states. but in such cases most governments in the eu take action. you make it easier for victims to file complaints, and you instruct police and justice to prioritize those complaints. in russia, it's different. that's where the government is passing laws banning so-called gay propaganda. no one knows exactly where the line is, but the perpetrators on youtube feel enormously empowered. they'll show you how to deal with non-heterosexuals. you just beat them up. russian lgbt organizations sometimes ask us to be careful with our responses. the government is supported by the majority of russians who have not yet seen the light in the lgbt field either. at the same time, these same organisations also know that they cannot do it alone and that they need our help. that does not make it any easier and perhaps that is why some colleagues and i received a rather woolly response to the letter we sent to the president of the commission and the high representative on 4 september last. there's a lot of talk. but what does that accomplish? the eu's role in the world is to help the developing countries to develop their economies and to help them to cope with the challenges of the 21st century. shouldn't we go further in our responses? for example, should we not take further action in the council of europe and nail russia to the stake? can we not agree - and i am speaking in particular to commissioner malmström - on a generous policy for admitting victims? at least we're acknowledging that there are people being persecuted in russia. and that puts pressure on the government. in short, can it please be an ounce more? can the commission say what it will do now, other than talk?
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, madam commissioner, empty seat of the council (as usual), very welcome, a lot has been said about what is happening in russia and everybody is very concerned about the developments. it is actually the combination of developments which is particularly tricky. there is the anti-lgbt law; there is a law which is clearly intended to harass and intimidate ngos; but now, on top of everything else, mr putin, former head of the kgb, has announced a kind of prism-on-steroids programme that allows mass-surveillance, apparently for security reasons, in the run-up to sochi. that mass-surveillance programme will allow him to monitor people, to intimidate them and to basically shut them up, to gag them. it will have the chilling effect of self-censorship. we should be a lot more firm and we should not actually just be talking about dialogue with mr putin. i somehow have the feeling that the word ‘dialogue’ has precious little meaning for mr putin. there are a couple of remarks i would like to make, first of all about the attitude of the international olympic committee (ioc). it may not officially be our business, but i am personally shocked and horrified by its attitude in banning visible expressions of support to ngos and lgbt people, saying ‘that kind of support would be politics’. how can it be politics to remind mr putin of his treaty obligations as a member of the council of europe? how can it be politics to call for respect for existing human rights legislation? that is not politics. i would also like to say to the ioc and its members, because they are human beings and they are hiding behind legalistic arguments: silence is also a message. it is a message of support to mr putin. i would like to call on the ioc to urgently revise its stance. we as the european union are going to accede to the echr and we cannot allow watering down of its principles because one of its members is in complete contravention of the rules. therefore we have to consider suspension of russian membership of the council of europe. that has to be on the table. i would also like to ask the commission: what about the proposals for visa liberalisation with russia? we cannot just continue the talks and pretend nothing is going on. finally, we have to give a message of support to the ngos and lgbt people in russia, maybe also in the form of eu financial support to ngos for those people, and ignore the ban on funding for ngos because this is about the core principles and core values of the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, russia is our biggest neighbour and i would very much like russia to get closer to the eu – more trade, more travel, more ties in all respects – but the actions of the putin regime are instead pushing russia further away from us. the anti-gay propaganda law is a horrible symbol of the general crackdown on anyone who has an opinion that does not suit mr putin. after the law dubbing all ngos that get financing from abroad as ‘foreign agents’, this is a further attempt to silence civil rights defenders, with horrific consequences. young gays are threatened and persecuted by vigilantes, violence against lgbt people has increased and activists are detained and prosecuted. meanwhile, the eu and some of the member states are still treating the putin regime as a regular, friendly government. my own country, the netherlands, is this year celebrating 400 years of ties with russia with all kinds of festivities here and there, although the friendship seems to be cooling off rather quickly at the moment. it is time that we stopped treating russia and the russian authorities as friends because they are not. they are not our friends. they are not the friends of civil rights or even of the russian people. they are only the friends of their own power. let us be clear: there can be no further trade liberalisation and no further visa liberalisation without more respect for civil rights and for the rights of lgbt people in russia. there can be no meeting russian counterparts or celebrating the glorious culture and history of russia here without emphasising the need for human rights, such as freedom of expression. there must be consequences for russia in the council of europe as well. above all, let us not look away as the situation gradually gets worse every day. let us do what we can, mostly to support the russian people as their government abandons them.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance mr president, what exactly is happening today in maaloula, the 'jerusalem of eastern christendom'? what about the forty or so orphans left behind there with their carers/protectors, nuns, defenseless nuns? these questions are agonizing for syrian christian refugees and their jordanian relatives. the media silence around maaloula reflects the global silence, they complain. why not fatwas against islamic homicides, for example? and most of all: do we not count for western church leaders and fellow christians? the facts about the primitive christian syrian sites in maaloula, some 30 miles from damascus, and sednaya, 15 miles from damascus, speak for themselves: 1. armed militias deliberately attacked maaloula and sednaya because of the specifically christian character of both places; the second. the armed attacks were aimed at driving out the christian inhabitants and at the same time destroying churches and monasteries; the third. maaloula and sednaya were attacked by an alliance of fighters from the free syrian army and al-qaida-affiliated jabhat al-nusra. so no distinction between 'secular rebels' and islamist terrorists/extremists! meanwhile, the suffering of syrian christians continues unabated. on sunday, islamic radicals fired 15 rockets at a church in the damascus neighborhood of al-qusa during a church service. the result: nine dead, over 30 injured and massive property damage. (the president declared the speaker willing to answer a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
"blue card" is the answer. very short: late last night, i made a phone call to insiders in syria and jordan about the situation. the statement by the commander of jabhat al-nusra at maaloula speaks volumes. he was talking about the "conquest of the crusader stronghold". so that is clearly a sad extremist religious agenda that we must condemn in the strongest terms. i would love it if islamic jurists would also issue fatwas against it and if the christian world in the west would also be drawn to this situation, because you hear that people there feel very, very abandoned.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank everybody for the resolution that is now on the table. what i would like to stress is that 2015 is very close. we are just two years away from the moment when a new climate deal should be agreed upon, and this time it should not fail, as it did in 2009 in copenhagen – sorry, mrs hedegaard, that was not meant personally. we cannot afford another failure. i also think that my colleagues on the right have to realise that they should be reading the ipcc reports a bit more carefully. if you look at the cumulative emissions, the ipcc clearly states that, if you want to meet the 2˚ celsius target, cumulative emissions can only reach one trillion tonnes of carbon. we are already over half way there and, if we just follow the baseline, in three decades we will have reached one trillion tonnes of carbon. then we will be passing the 2˚ limit. that is where we are at the moment, and that is also why we need ambitious targets on the table now. usually it is parliament that takes the first step, because we know that in september of next year, ban ki-moon will call all world leaders to come forward with their pledges. so in march, the leaders of the eu will come together and perhaps think of some targets. this is also the moment when parliament should be pushing our own leaders in the eu to come forward with ambitious targets. that is also part of this resolution now, because we need the targets now in order to make sure the eu leaders come forward in march. then later on we, as europe, can play the leading role in the ban ki-moon summit in september – because if we do not do so, who is going to take the first step? are we waiting for each other? are we serious enough about climate? then there is also some debate on pre-2020. regarding the problems we are discussing on ets, the main problem is that we have already met the 2020 target. there is no ambition in the current eu climate target, so this needs to be raised as well. otherwise we can discuss any ets reform, but it will not achieve anything. to conclude: regarding the polish presidency, who unfortunately cannot be here. we are rather concerned about the polish presidency. they are organising a world coal day at the same time. but also, if you look at the sponsors, you will see that one of them is bmw. last week we saw with co2 and cars what it means to have bmw sponsoring germany, or at least cdu merkel. therefore, what we expect – and please, poland, surprise us – is an ambitious timeline and, especially, an ambitious plea from the eu presidency next year in order to move forward to the ban ki-moon summit and to have a good result in 2015.
blue-card question. – mr seeber, you say: ‘what’s the problem?’ i have to ask the question: do you not agree that the current total lack of investment in innovation in europe for low-carbon strategies is a problem? at this stage, coal-fired power plants are thriving but gas-fired power plants are not, because of the very low co2 price. is that not a problem? in other words, do you not think that, just looking at the 2020 target, having no investment now is the biggest problem? we have to address ets now – otherwise, do we just stop at 2020?
convince us, commissioner, that there is real ambition for warsaw, because if you have ambition - you have shown that for four years - if we have ambition ourselves, then the others will go with us. today, commissioner potočnik made a speech announcing new commission proposals on shale gas and his colleague oettinger repeatedly indicated that he sees a place for shale gas in the energy mix. it is clear that we are not very ambitious in our transition to truly renewable energy, and that is why i would also like to urge that this message be consistently presented at the forthcoming climate conference. the signs of that conference are not good indeed; there are too many wrong sponsors around and there are too many factors that are holding back. can it just be casual? we have seen this play out for four years now, and then the ambitions are getting smaller and smaller, and each time we measure progress against the previous year, saying: yes, but compared to last year, it's all pretty easy! no, we must look at our real ambition, the ambition we had at cop 15 and we must keep it for next year. next year, real ambition please!
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs. - mr president, it is very kind of you to give me the floor after i was late. as for the position of the civil liberties committee on the 2014 budget: we are generally in favour of the economic policy proposed by our rapporteur. the european union is not a party to the maastricht treaty, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the committee has, however, approved a number of exceptions which have fortunately been adopted by the rapporteur. these exceptions will not be surprising. in view of the events in lampedusa, it is extremely necessary to provide additional funding to frontex, easo and other bodies which have a lot to do with asylum seekers. that is the view of the committee on civil liberties. that is what has been achieved in parliament's budget proposal and i hope that the council will support that in the near future.
i thank the rapporteur because it is good that there is now a comprehensive report on the fight against organised crime, with particular emphasis on financial crime. corruption is one such form of crime which is still on the increase in a number of member states. i am therefore looking forward to the first report from the european commission and i ask commissioner malmström: will the commission finally comply with its own reporting obligations under the un convention? sometimes, however, the report is clear. in particular, the rights of suspects are being ignored. the report is very sloppy in its treatment of the question of the denial of the right to vote. i can imagine that the italians no longer need another resurrection of berlusconi, but it is really up to the judge to prevent this by means of an additional punishment and not to politicians to decide that themselves. the report also concludes very quickly that there should be a european public prosecutor. i do not think the commission's arguments are very convincing in this respect. i have tabled amendments on these matters with my colleagues and, depending on them, i shall vote in favour or abstain.
more than 800 000 victims of human trafficking in europe, mr president. that is about as many people as live in the city of amsterdam. 270 000 of them are victims of sexual exploitation. that's the population of the city of utrecht. this is unacceptable. we have to do something together. some have already referred to that. i am thinking in any case of the following action points: the first. we must follow the swedish model in europe, which means that prostitution must be made a criminal offence; the second. cooperation between national police and judicial bodies and i think we should go back to preactions, to border controls. europol and eurojust should assist in this process; the third. i think it is also necessary for us to suspend the extension of the schengen area for the time being. the countries wishing to join must first demonstrate that they are effectively fighting corruption and organised crime and that they have an independent judiciary. then we can move on. this is necessary, mr president, and i would like to hear from the commissioner.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0406 - c4-0173/97). it has been said on more than one occasion that the free movement of persons is mainly the free movement of criminals. in the meantime, each country must arm itself against the biggest rapaille to be found in the eu. in the netherlands we have no answer to the moroccan street terrorism and we are not up to the crime that is happening in the balkans. the insolence of bulgarian gangs to apply for millions of unjustified subsidies in the netherlands. romanians who steal irreplaceable paintings in rotterdam and then turn out to burn them. gangs from eastern europe stealing hundreds of smartphones at major events. how are you supposed to fight all this? mr president, i can tell you that. contrary to what this report says, we do not need more europe, but less. we have learned that open borders do not work. the member states themselves must decide who gets in and who gets out. it's the only way.
i would like to begin by thanking my colleague mr iacolino and, of course, the chairman of the committee, mrs alfano, for the work they have done. i myself have been involved in working visits to eurojust and europol and i think that the committee has done an extraordinary amount of work between all the companies. then the scale of the problem: there are 3,600 criminal organizations in europe that are home to all markets. we see an increasing blending of the underworld and the upper world. there is an investment from the underworld into the upper world, and that makes our economic system extremely vulnerable. what else do we see? the fact that organized crime knows best how the european single market works should be a serious warning to us. that is why i ask mrs malmström: is there anyone else in the european union who sees the coherence between all our activities? we're very active with different agencies, different programs. we have europol, we have the stockholm programme, we have the prüm convention. is there someone coordinating and monitoring all this? what about the implementation problem? you have already mentioned this in your own introduction. yes, you are responsible for that, but do you also have a stake? now, there's all sorts of things happening and i still get the impression that we're not the winning side. unfortunately, the winning party at the moment is still often organized crime. two more elements: the transfer to non-member states. we see increasing activity from ukraine and other countries. and finally , the administrative approach. it is not only the fight against crime that is important, but also the administrative approach.
mafia practices are widespread in europe. human trafficking, illegal organ trafficking, arms trafficking, but also corruption have a devastating effect on our societies. the money made from such practices is being laundered by all sorts of new forms of crime, such as match-fixing. member states are often not or hardly aware of this and are still working together far too little to deal with it adequately. the crim report makes concrete recommendations to the member states for a coherent approach to organised crime in europe. we must strengthen the confidence of our citizens by showing that we are taking organized crime seriously. the same applies to the people who are causing this crisis in the eu, the rogue market traders. in order to strengthen confidence in financial markets, it is important that member states speed up the adoption of the market abuse directive, at the latest by tomorrow.
- a writer. − the appointment of a member of the court of auditors is subject to a procedure laid down in the treaty. the council shall appoint one after obtaining the opinion of parliament. in the past, there have been a few instances where the advice has been negative. nevertheless, the council then wisely decided to appoint that candidate. since then, parliament has asked the court of auditors' nominee in advance what it would do if parliament's opinion were negative. that has happened a few times in the past and a few candidates have said that they would then withdraw. i think that's very honorable. we now have the case of the croatian candidate who stated during the hearing: if parliament finds it unsuitable, i shall withdraw. and then he confirmed that in a letter dated june 5 of this year, in which he said: "during the hearing i said that i would withdraw my nomination if the eu parliament does not support my nomination. i will keep my word". that's strong language, as far as i'm concerned. nevertheless, the council decided to appoint the man. so the big question is: the council was aware that the croatian candidate, mr neven mates, had made this statement to parliament and if so, why did the council decide to appoint the man? because that's a very serious matter. the man has lied to a freely elected parliament and in all our democracies that is a capital sin. i think it is also bad for the reputation of the court of auditors as a whole. how can they have someone in their midst who is lying to this parliament? and why have the members of the court of auditors not protested? i think that in this case there is only one honourable way out for the croatian candidate and that is to withdraw. i think that if someone breaks his word to a parliament, fruitful cooperation in the future is out of the question; if the man were to stay, it would spoil the atmosphere between the whole court and this parliament for years to come. that is a bad thing for europe and i would therefore like to know what the council is going to do about it. does he find the conduct of this candidate understandable, plausible, permissible?
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road. of course you can. there were some incidents, too, so it's good to look into that. the results came out recently, and the conclusion is: these four countries have very little to worry about. you'd think they'd be cheering! because it's nice to hear that your worries are unnecessary, i guess. but that didn't happen at all. because they weren't happy at all, they were angry! they were angry that the survey did not confirm their view that there would be major problems with benefit tourism. the dutch state secretary teeven said, and i quote, "the stupidest thing you can do is deny problems". well, i actually think the stupidest thing you can do is hold on to your own theory when the facts prove that theory wrong. and then you put all your energy into a problem that's negligible, when there are much bigger problems to be dealt with. the free movement of workers, temporary workers, posted workers and selfemployed workers is not without problems. there is underpayment, exploitation and displacement, particularly because the free movement of services allows some of these things legally. the only way to really fight this kind of thing is equal pay for equal work in all structures. countries can already do a lot of things to address the problems themselves, like checking for rights. but in the netherlands, it is the labour inspection that is being cut back. and germany is still refusing to introduce a minimum wage. mr president, free movement must be put on the right track and we do that by tackling real problems and not by spitting out empty rhetoric against all the facts for a few extra votes at the next election.
i am absolutely in favour of free movement, mr president, because it has brought us prosperity and it still brings us prosperity. but the problem we face is that we have to convince our european citizens that all abuse is punished. and that means that there's a lot more and a lot better to control. if the dutch minister for social affairs makes any comments, i would refer them back to him if i were the commissioner and say: check it out! but that does not mean that we should turn a blind eye to the problems. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. does he have health insurance elsewhere in europe? if a tunnel is built in maastricht, where polish and portuguese workers are working, where social security is not paid and where, moreover, far too high fees are charged, then i know that these kinds of problems must be solved. and that is something that the eu and the member states themselves must do.
as an active member of euronest, i will focus on the eastern partnership countries. because in five weeks' time the summit will be in vilnius, where the european union is due to sign important cooperation agreements with ukraine, georgia and moldova. and these treaties are to ensure that a zone of prosperity and stability is created on europe's external borders. and that is important for those countries first, but also for us. but, mr president, the pressure from moscow is casting a shadow over the summit in vilnius. we have seen what has happened to armenia and moldova. this pressure is unacceptable and must be opposed by europe in a united and firm way. but, mr president, if there is one thing i have learned in euronest, it is that nothing in the caucasus is black and white. there's a lot of shades of gray in between. the eastern partnership is therefore not a tug-of-war between europe and russia with one winner in the end. that is an overly simplistic picture and we must try to avoid it. this requires a continued strong commitment to partnership and support for countries such as armenia and moldova. but also to put great pressure on improving the fragile quality of the rule of law in those countries, because that remains a major concern. and, finally, mr president, it also requires very sophisticated and, above all, united diplomacy vis-à-vis russia.
mr president, i think mr cadec has done some very good work on his report and in the negotiations, but i would like to make one remark as rapporteur for the general regulation for the structural funds. these funds will have a new place in the framework of the european unionʼs investment funds in the next seven years. we can even use money from the social fund for the regional development fund to have an integrated approach in these coastal areas. let me take one example: the aquacultures that can be used to have a smart specialisation approach. that can be done much more. we talk about this a great deal as an import, but europe does not really maximise its production in that field. so there is great potential and i am very happy with the main ideas behind the report’s smart agreement inclusive approach, and to bring forward these innovative methods in pulse fishery and also to overcome discards. i will make one final remark. it concerns the hesitation on the new ships, which probably is not something the netherlands can support. but one thing is important. just start the negotiations and get a quick first reading agreement. i think that you will come forward with results that parliament can probably support.
everywhere, banks that have run into trouble are being recapitalized, bailed out or even declared bankrupt. it is up to each democratically elected government to decide whether its own taxpayers should contribute to the rescue of a national bank, except in the european union. the eu has no message for the democracies of the member states, and the banking union dreamed of by the euro-lovers is another example of this. with a banking union, the esm, to which the netherlands contributes as much as 40 billion euros, risks being used to directly fund distressed banks in europe without the involvement of national governments. mr president, the euro-lovers always have the euphemism: a banking union with european banking supervision. but of course, it comes down to the discharge of debts. all the debts, especially from the south, are thrown into one big pile and then the north can turn around. in other words, those who make a mess of it get away with it. the dutch are now allowed to give away their hard-earned money because of the mismanagement of banks elsewhere in europe. in short, a banking union means a financial disaster for the netherlands and its citizens. madam president, ladies and gentlemen: whether you like it or not, the turning point will be the next elections, in may next year.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. − mr president, i am a great supporter of the european semester in theory. we desperately need more coordination if we are to emerge from the crisis, and if we are to combat unemployment and poverty. but i find it a bit depressing that, in practice, the semester does not seem to be genuinely delivering, since it is still inherently flawed. it is clear that we are nowhere near achieving the 2020 goals by 2020. far deeper, concerted reform is needed if we are to move towards a sustainable economy with job-rich growth. i would therefore like to ask the commission two questions. firstly, will the commission make environmental taxation and the elimination of environmentally-harmful subsidies a key priority in the annual growth survey? while countries are told to cut down on social expenses, europe is at the same time still massively subsidising environmentally-harmful industries. this is, of course, insane. we should reduce taxation on labour and shift it to environmental taxation. secondly, in this report, parliament will strongly call for a social dimension of the emu, by including social indicators for macro-economic imbalances, among other things. however, it worries me a bit that the commission calls these indicators ‘auxiliary’. so i ask: will the commission ensure that social indicators are put on an equal footing with economic and financial ones in its policy guidance?
president. - the member states have agreed in article 5 of the treaty to coordinate their economic policies with a view to the functioning of the internal market. the eurogroup has agreed not to have excessive deficits, in view of the sustainability of the euro. but what we have not agreed is to coordinate social policy, let alone to take it to the centre, something which the european parliament now wants. that is illegal policy, and it is also unwise policy. decades of socialist policies have already driven the share of government in the total economy to unsustainable heights, and the taxes to pay for those policies squeeze the life out of every economy. it is becoming a habit that both the european commission and the european parliament ignore the treaty. the commission has always had ideas which were not well received in the member states but which brussels is still trying to implement. if this parliament is to call for anything, it is for a small government, small debts, low taxes. that, mr president, is the recipe for restoring economic growth. and then we will have no need at all for the european economic semester!
the economic recovery in europe is slowly gaining momentum. the storm of the crisis has subsided, thanks in part to the new economic governance in which this parliament has also played an important role. but, mr president, the urgency is still high, because the level of unemployment in the member states is unacceptable. so to restore confidence, sufficient action and commitment from the member states is also needed, and they must be supported by their parliaments. the commission's recommendations for structural reforms of the public service budget, of the labour market, are crucial. for our group, the ppe group, a social europe is a europe that creates jobs. and what do we see too often in the member states? it is chosen for the short term, for burdens to be added to bring the budget for the coming year into order. but that does not offer any prospect of solid growth. it's costing jobs instead of creating jobs. commissioner rehn, i would encourage you to look closely at the multiannual plans when you assess the budgets next month. are there sufficient structural measures? we are talking about reducing the debt mountain, because it costs unacceptably high interest rates, and that is expensive tax money, of bringing competitiveness into line. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because what we need is a healthy breeding ground for our small and mediumsized enterprises, for our job creation engine. that is going to provide us with the jobs that are needed to help the youth who are now being sidelined to get a job.
as a member of the committee on budgets i have heard all these enormous changes and then i wonder as a member of this committee on budgets where we have been in the last few days ... (thunder rumbling)
i thought mr schulz had said at one of the previous major votes that we would no longer vote on dozens of pages of amendments; unfortunately, as a non-attached member, i cannot ask for referral back to committee, but perhaps one of my colleagues can, because this is really crazy!
on behalf of the group of the european people's party. mr president, i would like to put to you two urgent questions. first of all: the continuing flow of jihadists from europe - a trial is still taking place in my own country, the netherlands - and from turkey to the syrian battlefield. what countermeasures are the eu and its candidate turkey taking? secondly, the circumvention of the western sanctions policy by iran on the territory of the eu and also turkey. again, my question is: what measures are being taken by brussels and ankara to counter this? i should like to add a few more details to these two points and to the questions which have been put to you. turkish media reported that in the past year, hundreds of young turks have joined the extremists in neighboring syria. two hundred in the southeastern turkish city of adi jaman alone. add to that the doubling of the number of french jihadists in syria since this spring! typical is the recent statement of a prominent member of french intelligence. i 'm not going to lie . "we have never seen anything like this, not even with afghanistan!" as regards iran's evasion of western sanctions policy on european soil, i shall be happy to present the analysis by the expert emanuele ottolenghi, published at the beginning of september under the title: iran is really good at evading sanctions. i would like to hear a written response as soon as possible to the incriminating facts that ottolenghi has brought to light in his detailed investigation report. because i can assume, madam high representative, that you are looking through the smile of the new iranian president, rouhani.
mr president, madam high representative, this is the last time we will debate the annual cfsp in the current configuration of parliament and with yourself as our high representative. as we take stock, we need no reminders of the urgent need for strong, strategic, european foreign and security policy. with a confident russia bullying not only its own citizens but also member states of the eu and vital neighbours through politicising trade, we must stand firmly and take care not to be played apart. the us is choosing to no longer be the world superpower as it seeks to take a step back, and perhaps this is understandable – but who takes the place of leadership in defending and promoting free societies, free markets and, most of all, free people? especially with regard to human rights and fundamental freedoms, the us has lost credibility, and this should be europe’s moment. we can use the transatlantic trade and investment partnership to strengthen our alliance, but not without cementing our values. the middle east is more fragile than ever. with an average age of 26, the young generation needs opportunities for self-determination yet are lured by hopelessness and also extremism. syria, of course, represents the most horrific of examples. the horror and the suffering should not be forgotten, and while there are no easy solutions, certainly the us-russia initiative to deal with the chemical weapons is not a solution to all problems, nor was the breaking of the european weapons embargo, under the leadership of france and the uk. i am happy with european leadership when it comes to humanitarian aid – we take our responsibility. but we must do more, because i am afraid we have not seen the worst yet. a divided europe is a weak europe that is played apart, and with our basis not in order, opportunities are difficult to reap. i believe we must test the words of opening from iran, and the eu needs its own strategy. we should not merely be a facilitator for talks between the us and iran, as the us congress is pushing for more sanctions. this is the moment for europe to act independently and forcefully. we must take our responsibility militarily. soft power and hard power go hand in hand, and i am afraid we should push harder to put the silver thread of human rights back on top of the agenda.
for the ppe group relations between the netherlands and russia have been excellent for centuries, but are now heavily overshadowed by the problems of greenpeace activists. the netherlands has tried in recent weeks, through arbitration and through an emergency procedure before the tribunal for the law of the sea, to get these people out of pre-trial detention. i find it unacceptable that activists are in pre-trial detention for two months, and the central point of my contribution is therefore: what can the european union, both the council and the european commission, do to get these people released in the short term? i understand that there are legal proceedings from the russian government, but we think it is disproportionate to keep these people in pre-trial detention for that. two months! the president-in-office of the council has already said that 18 nationalities are involved, including two journalists. this parliament is always in favour of freedom of the press for journalists and this is actually unacceptable in relations between the european union and the russian republic. i therefore ask the president-in-office of the council: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. my second question is to the commission: what can the commission do to ensure that russia does recognize the tribunal on the law of the sea? and finally, mr president, my question: it is not possible that the netherlands and the dutch people are alone in this matter. i therefore urge the council and the commission to help. the speaker is addressing a 'blue card' question (rule 149 (8)).]
"blue card" is the answer. it will depend to a large extent on the answers we will receive from the council and the commission shortly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i know that some third countries do not like that, but if they want good relations with the eu, they must also accept our rules of the game.
president. - the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97). russia has acted far too harshly and is now holding the activists in an unacceptable manner. on the other hand, the greenpeace activists knew exactly what they were doing when they started the actions. because the netherlands is the flagship of the greenpeace ship, there is another actor involved: the netherlands. criminal and civil law is russia versus activists, and it should be noted again that russia is treating the activists in an unacceptable way. but on the other hand, the relationship between the netherlands and russia is a matter of international law. the tribunal for the law of the sea is now going to look at the legitimacy of the entry and actually i would recommend that they go to the international court of arbitration in the hague instead. in the netherlands we have enough to deal with the arrogance of the russian state. russian diplomats refuse to pay their parking tickets and invoke their international immunity whenever they abuse their children. meanwhile, a dutch diplomat is attacked and beaten at his home in moscow in what appears to be a hate crime! thanks to the utterly failing dutch foreign minister, who prefers to be on facebook than in his own ministry, this is all culminating in a diplomatic row. the central point in this dispute is that the european union should not interfere in any way, especially not at a time when negotiations are still taking place between the dutch and russian authorities! this debate in the european parliament is only damaging dutch diplomacy and putting activists in danger.
the charge against the greenpeace crew of the arctic sunrise is piracy. that is completely absurd! and also ridiculous when you look at the severity and the violence of piracy in the indian ocean. i hope the hamburg maritime court will put an end to this puppet show. we should not expect that from the russian judges, who are chained to the kremlin. the question is, how democratic and rule of law is the putin regime? mr putin does not tolerate contradiction or opposition. if there is, there'll be some people coming to clean out your office. like what happened to greenpeace in murmansk. in short, it is high time that we reconsider our relations with russia. first of all, let us become more self-sufficient in energy. as long as we are too dependent on russia for oil and gas, we are not doing the right thing! (the president answered a question on a 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure). ]
"blue card" is the answer. i think it is of the utmost importance that the council and the commission now act together to secure the release of the crew as soon as possible. that's what i'm really concerned about right now. and that after that , other steps can be taken on the diplomatic front ...
"blue card" question. what is it? i listened carefully to mr søndergaard and he calls on the russians to release the crew. i would like to support that, but i think that a call is not enough, because a call is a piece of paper, a statement, and that does not make mr putin cold or warm. what exactly do you want these gentlemen to do in front of the council and the commission? that something is really being done to put pressure, because a call, they laugh at the kremlin.
blue-card question. – mr president, i have difficulty expressing my joy and emotion at seeing you back in our midst. i am so happy that you are in your seat, where you belong, as peter van dalen has also said. the second thing is that news has just come through that the russian authorities have dropped the charge of piracy and changed it to hooliganism, which carries a seven-year sentence.
mr president, i will refrain from asking him this question after i heard him speaking about zionist gangsters. i do not talk to anti-semites.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank gaston franco and commissioner potočnik, and also the irish presidency for the role they have played. i would also like to be honest about the rather uninspiring and also misleading title of the seventh environmental action programme, and particularly the subtitle: ‘living well, within the limits of our planet’, which is far too defensive. i would like to rename this action plan the ‘first european action plan to guarantee well-being’ – because that is what it is about. in tomorrow’s world, with 9-10 billion people and double the current number in the middle-income category, efficiency will determine our competitiveness. this is not about labour efficiency; it is about resource efficiency, energy efficiency and changing our economy from a linear to a circular one. that is what this action plan is about. it is not only about resource efficiency, biodiversity, waste and a low-carbon economy, but also about improving the implementation of eu legislation. the commissioner referred to this as the cornerstone of the action plan, and he also mentioned the eu monitoring and control system, which is to be strengthened. i am very satisfied with the agreement we reached with the council, but it is now up to the commission and the council to live up to that agreement, and that is what always proves to be the most difficult thing. look at what happened last year – the greening of the cap was watered down. the council no longer embraces the biodiversity strategy; and the council, together with many of the commissioners, regards sustainability as an obstacle to growth – although it is in fact a criterion for growth. the good thing about what we are discussing here is that this ‘first european action plan to guarantee well-being’ shows that there is another way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the budget. the commission is forcing member states to put their books in order and to have a balanced budget as much as possible. it is therefore strange - and this is the liberal group's position - that the member states should force the commission to take the opposite position, so our basic position is: if there is an obligation and bills are coming in, those bills have to be paid. we have discussed this morning the draft amending budget no 6 to pay for a number of things. the european union's own resources are in short supply. it is perhaps also good for the member states to realise that the system of own resources we have now clearly needs to be changed. the events of the last months of this financial year are indicative of this. the liberal group will vote in favour of draft amending budget no 6, provided that the amendment tabled by the socialist group is adopted. but before we can proceed to the adoption of the multiannual financial framework - and then i can only repeat what many others have already said - the liberal group also believes that the 3.9 billion, the draft amending budget no 8, must be adopted. that is a strict condition and the same applies to the other conditions set out in the resolution of july this year. the working party on own resources must be clarified before we vote. what is the composition of the group, who will chair it and all that sort of thing, these are not matters which can be resolved after the vote, we must know before then. the same applies, of course, to the legislative work that still needs to be done. i think that this morning's debate shows - and i have already said this - that we need a new system of own resources and i hope that by the rapid completion of this budget the council will realise that it must cooperate in a new system of own resources.
year after year the commission spent far too much on unnecessary projects. this parliament was all for it and often added to it. it was hard-working taxpayers' money, after all. with buckets of money at a time, the money disappeared into the bottomless pits. however, a number of unpaid bills suddenly appeared at the commission, so many that money was needed for the year 2013. the bill was put to the member states, to the hardworking citizen. the council is rightly angry about all these additional bills. but mr la via does not blame the commission, he blames the council. it has provided far too little money. mr president, this is the world upside down! the one who spends the money demands more and more because he gets too little. truly beyond words! i have no doubt that this house will approve the la via report. the socialists, the christian democrats and the liberals will bow to the commission's demand. the bill goes to the citizen: no less money in the wallet, no more party with the euro-clique. the european union is a great example of a great economic crisis, which is both caused and maintained by the european union.
mr president, international skills for people enrolled in academic and vocational education are becoming increasingly important in order for them to enter into an internationalised job market. the lack of mobility in europe hurts our solutions to youth unemployment. we believe that in erasmus plus the student should be the centre of attention at a time when budgets are being cut and young people are paying a disproportionately high price for the lack of leadership in solving the economic crisis in europe. it is essential that we get the biggest output for our investments. for the alde group, efficiency and the integration of procedures and spending, as well as inclusion, were key points. sadly, there was also a bit of a battle in this house to avoid very long wish lists that would water down the proposed impact and efficiency of erasmus plus. we must now focus on quality for the estimated four million people who will have the opportunity to take part in exchanges, and hopefully that number will even increase, through the loan guarantee. yet with the erasmus programme’s budget now significantly increased but still taking up only a small 1.5% of the european budget, let us keep in mind that there is a lot more that we can and must do for the younger generation of europeans looking for opportunity and political leadership.
the european union's educational programmes are most visible to our young people. i think we can be very proud of that, especially at a time when the european union is sometimes looking for new legitimacy. i think we owe a great debt of gratitude to doris pack for the enormous work she has done as rapporteur on this, albeit complex, task. i am very pleased with the extension of the target groups, particularly to secondary vocational education. we all know that students in science and higher vocational education are very familiar with the erasmus programme. but we are now going to expand to secondary vocational education, to the handicapped students and certainly to sports. and don't say that sport is not a job, because of course there are thousands of young people who find their jobs in sport. i'm also pleased with the relationship with youth unemployment. i sometimes get the impression that the erasmus programme was used too much as a non-binding study programme and had too little direct relation to the labour market. if that could be further tightened in the future, i think we are taking a good step today.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the cultural and creative sectors hardly ever feature prominently on our political agendas. however, they are good for six to seven million jobs in europe and also have an impact on attracting tourists and businesses and fostering innovation – and, more importantly, arts and culture, expression and creativity are essential ingredients for open societies. the intrinsic value of culture cannot always be measured by a price tag. we try, through creative europe, to make a modest contribution by making the eu budget for creative and media programmes more efficient and streamlined, but compared to the amount of the multiannual financial framework – on which we will vote this week – that goes to agricultural subsidies, we fall far short of the future-proof investments that europe needs. having said that, it is important to act even when budgets are under pressure. for the liberal group, the key goal was to be more efficient by simplifying the programmes but parliament had a problem holding that focus, with so many amendments and long wish lists seeking to change the programme. one good new feature is the access to private funding, which could not only help the cultural and creative industries but also increase knowledge within financial institutions about the cultural and creative sectors. a priority we consider to have been missed out is that of reaping the full benefits of digitisation. while including gaming is good, our group would have liked to see better and speedier copyright reform and provision for ensuring that we use new technologies more efficiently so as to cut red tape and make it easier for audiences around the world to access the cultural and creative content of which we are so proud.
president. - mr president, we have today, as it seems, a new multiannual budget. that is a good thing, as far as i am concerned. there's one downside to this: it's for a seven-year period. i believe that a five-year period is better for a multiannual budget and i hope that this will be the case in the future from 2020 onwards. as for the mid-term review. it may be that changes can be made by the new parliament, but i am pessimistic as long as unanimity in the council is still needed to achieve that. the most important thing about this budget is that it is 3.5% lower than the previous budget. i think that is a good sign for the people of europe, now that we are all faced with the need to cut back. we have also reached the point where we will have more flexibility. that seems to me to be a very good thing. the big drawback is that the margins are extremely small. i am particularly concerned about one subject, and that is the outbreak of animal diseases. we've had foot-and-mouth disease and swine fever in the past, and you name it. they could be paid because there were always large margins in the budgets. this is no longer the case and i wonder how the commission will pay if there is a real outbreak of a new disease. then the system of own resources. i think that a system of new own resources should be introduced. this working party is extremely important. the council has made a few clarifications. it is bound to do so, but the council statement says a little too much could instead of should and too much possibly instead of a direct possibility being offered. i would like the council to confirm once again that it really wants to achieve this as soon as possible. i think we need to. as for the rest, we must fill in the names as quickly as possible and i can only hope that the new multiannual budget will live up to expectations, because many have high expectations of it.
the new multiannual financial framework is finally up for vote. i am satisfied with the reduction compared with the previous mff, but i hope that this will also mean that the annual budgets will be reduced. the member states are also having to cut back on their national budgets as a result of the economic crisis. unfortunately, the tone in this parliament is different and many feel that more money is the answer. i would like to see europe focusing more on its core tasks and leaving areas such as social policy, culture and sport to the member states. the planned mid-term review should not yet be used to increase the mff. i find the own resources route unacceptable. this gives the eu undesirable state features. the member states must provide the eu with the necessary financial resources and thus retain control over european policies and the budget, because in the end it is the citizens who have to pay for everything.
mr president, i have heard three things in this debate. it was about the size of the budget. at a time when families, provinces, municipalities and member states are tightening their belts, europe should do the same. second, it was about what we spend our money on. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century, such as access to raw materials, sustainable energy and maintaining our competitiveness. the third point was: how is the european budget financed? and yes, we have another working group on own resources, a déjà vu. but there's one huge elephant in this room that we've all been talking about, and i think that's what it's all about. i have heard a little bit of murmuring and complaining from the far right against the annual conclusions of the court of auditors and then they have left this chamber. there is a solution to the challenge of better accountability of european money - that is the point - and that is national management declarations. that was once a priority of the european parliament, but i no longer hear from anyone about it. it is also a shame that the european commission does not recognise this as a priority, but neither does the council or member states such as the netherlands, which have traditionally considered it a priority. the dutch prime minister, mr rutten - i haven't heard from him. it is precisely in a better accounting of european money that lies the legitimacy of our budget and the policies we finance with it. if we do not work to improve accountability, that legitimacy will suffer. the result will be that the next budget negotiations will only become more acute and will only result in camps being further apart in the trenches. we can't let that happen. so my advice is: i am not saying that the european parliament should not be involved in the budget, but that it should be involved in the budget itself, and that it should be involved in the budget itself.
i am speaking on behalf of the alde group. mr president, this year was another difficult birth. in the dead of night, an agreement was reached. thank god there is one. and then i might also take this opportunity to congratulate everyone involved, in particular the two rapporteurs of parliament, anne jensen and monika hohlmeier. the most striking feature of the budget is the reduction of 6% compared with the previous year. i think that is an excellent starting point for the european parliament to take in the next elections. we can show that we can cut back too. nevertheless, i am also pleased that certain items have been increased: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. all these things are very important in this context to combat youth unemployment. more money for the protection of the external borders. this is very important in the light of events in the mediterranean. more money for frontex and for easo. the margins are extremely small and, like mr kalfin, i am also concerned about the commission's ability to pay all the bills next year. we can only hope that the commission's estimates are correct. my thanks to everyone involved.
- i'm the reporter. − at the beginning of this afternoon, after the vote on the multiannual financial framework, it is very pleasing to be able to immediately join the largest package of investments for the coming years, some 325 billion euro, to find a way out of the crisis. that's what this is all about. the reforms, once every seven years, which are now being decided here today, are much more urgent than the adjustments before them. for the first time, the european parliament is also sitting with the council, with the ministers of the member states, as an equal partner in the framework of full co-decision. we have collectively brought about a shift - again - to make these changes, these investments possible. but we've broken more records. the number of trialogue agreements is over 80 for the general regulation alone. that is a european record, as far as i know, and it also shows how dedicated we have been to this. a reformed investment policy across five funds, which we are implementing in the cities and member states close to our citizens, businesses and organisations. the five funds now covered by the general regulation form the central investment frameworks of the european budget. the european cohesion funds, as they have been called so far, are changing from compensatory funds for the transfer of money from rich member states to poor regions into a targeted investment instrument for knowledge, sustainability and jobs. the steering changes too. instead of much emphasis on ex post evaluation, we now work with emphatic ex ante evaluation and commitment. an agreement will be concluded with all the parties concerned, regions, cities and partners in each member state. this contribution to smarter, greener and also more inclusive is at the heart of those debates in advance in the member states. this will prevent too much - i might say too much - being invested in concrete and asphalt and too little in knowledge, training and competitiveness. we are also putting an end to the imbalance in southern europe - over-investment in infrastructure and, as i said, under-investment in competitiveness, knowledge, innovation and employment - which is now causing tens of thousands of well-educated young people to leave each month from countries like spain and portugal alone, from the convergence regions. the new translation of the principle of solidarity in the eu through these structural and investment funds combines in a new way the central knowledge areas in europe with regions, but also all developing regions and cities. the focus through the thematic concentration in the funds and the introduction of smart specialisation is that change, the basis for change. the earlier inclusion in the lisbon treaty of the objective of territorial cohesion provided an important legal basis for this. we are making sure that these cohesion euros are more profitable and are thus also sending a very clear signal. the european social fund's share of cohesion funding is to be increased from 16% to 23.1%. and our instruments are being adjusted - indeed - more towards guaranteeing, loans and revolving funds. i would like to thank in particular - and i would like to conclude - my co-rapporteur, mrs constanze krehl, mrs hübner and all the other rapporteurs on cooperation, and the team. i'll do that again at closing, because it's been teamwork for the last year and a half.
"blue card" question. what is it? madam toia, i would like to ask you whether you have taken note of the common strategic framework which was just drawn up by parliament to complement the text of the commission proposal in which we are making this synergy possible. did you or your staff perhaps miss that?
"blue card" question. what is it? president, i should like to make a brief statement to mrs schroedter. it is not the case that the four important points concerning the role of parliament, the strengthened procedure, the unemployment rate, the continuing crisis and cofinancing have been given very strong commitments in the legislative text. so you talk about macro-conditionality as if it were still the original proposal. perhaps i can ask the greens to join in a little.
"blue card" question. what is it? i would like to ask mr stoyanov if he is willing to come and see, because if he says that nothing has been achieved, he is overlooking a great deal of investment and output in jobs and competitiveness. so if he accepts the invitation to come to the netherlands, for example, which is a small amount compared to his country, he can learn a lot in one day.
the european union has a budget of some 400 billion euros for the coming years, which is a huge sum. the real question is: is this money being spent well? after all, more than 80% of the money is spent through the member states. unfortunately, that's what happens all the time. we can of course set out fine guidelines and priorities, but if the member states do not ensure that the funds are spent properly, we will not get anywhere. we cannot afford that, especially in times of economic crisis. the european court of auditors has not given a positive statement on the money spent for years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for example, money for small and medium-sized enterprises was going to large multinationals. mr president, of course you must not. europe must get rid of this stain, starting in 2014.
the distribution and policy framework of over 320 billion euros is on the table. the netherlands is the best boy in europe. we pay our way, and the pennies disappear into the great redistribution machine of the eu. the commission is not making any sense and its policy nonsense is always the same bureaucratic talk. the structural funds are nothing more than a means of pumping taxpayers' money. successful member states pay the bill and the rest make the pennies. the commission even claims that one of the eu's greatest successes is that it has raised the standard of living of all its citizens. the commission should be ashamed of such a statement. will it explain this to the many thousands of drivers or construction workers in the netherlands who are unemployed at home thanks to the eu, or to the bankrupt painters and carpenters who have seen their jobs and their turnover disappear thanks to the eu? the pvv calls for the structural funds policy to be abolished and the money to be returned to the contributing countries.
- i'm the reporter. - mr president, let me make four points at the end of this afternoon's debate. first of all, i remember very well that at some point in 2009-2010, during the review, during the discussion on the mff - the mid-term review - there were all kinds of voices about how to proceed, including critical voices about regional policy. then people thought: perhaps we should start working with thematic funds for water, sun and energy. yet another variant has emerged, with an integrated policy, indeed focused on knowledge, sustainability and jobs. that's where the power is, close to people. i do like this choice: the commission has already made a number of proposals. my second comment concerns the esf. i don't understand any of this. that 23.1% is a minimum. member states may go further if necessary. the multifund method can also be used. i do not know how to convince the greens otherwise than by summarizing the nature of the policy. let us look at what we can do in the cohesion fund, among other things, with energy applications in housing in eastern europe. i wrote a little book myself. i found time for that. it 's called: "for green, growth and jobs". that is a book for the epp, from the epp, but there is so much in it about greening and sustainability that i will make an attempt to beat the greens in the vote tomorrow. finally, of course, i would like to thank my colleagues, the rapporteurs, the whole negotiating team and, above all, the council, which is on the other side of the table. it took 80 sessions before we got them over the line on some points. but yes, the result counts. it was not as positive in all respects, but i think it was almost as much as possible. and the commission has always been prepared, step by step, i should say, to provide those texts which contributed to the compromises. i would like to thank both commissioners in particular for this, because i think you are all in agreement.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − equality between men and women is a fundamental european right. it was already enshrined in the treaty of rome in 1957. the european commission can therefore not only propose legislation to guarantee this right, but must do so. one of the areas where equality between men and women is still far from being achieved, both striking and distressing, is at the top of the corporate ladder. particularly agonizing in these times of crisis. we have learned with great pain that economic decision-making has a huge impact on the lives of all people in the eu. it is simply undemocratic to exclude half the population from this decision-making. so my thanks go to commissioner reding, who has finally come up with a good and nuanced proposal to do something about this. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs and the members of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on women's rights. we have left the proposal essentially intact, but i think we have improved it considerably technically and have also been able to remove many of the objections raised by companies and member states. now it's up to the council. it's a pity he's not represented here. it is good news that in germany a coalition agreement has been made on women in the top echelons of the business community there. then we need one more country. i have placed my hopes in estonia. then we can start negotiating. i hope the council will do everything possible to sit down with us as soon as possible. there is now a wonderful opportunity to take a very important step towards equality for men and women in europe. let's all grab that opportunity with both hands.
blue-card question. – i am quite sure that eventually, at some point in the very far future, taking no legislative action and having no sanctions will lead to more equality in boardrooms, but i am very sure that i will not be alive to see it. how will you, with the measures you are proposing, make sure that you and i will be alive to see 40% female representation in the board rooms of every large company across europe?
they always know how to euphemistically put it around here. we are talking about improving the gender ratio of non-executive directors of listed companies. i prefer to call the beast by its name: women's quotas. that's what it's all about. but improvement is certainly not that. quite the contrary. the commission considers that the fact that some member states take sovereign initiatives to improve the gender ratio and that others do not take any action at all is a distortion of the internal market. it is a pretext for further harmonisation of rules at eu level. the commission is not one to shy away from this. it wants at least 40% of the non-executive board members to be women, and that across the european union. mr president, i say to you, first of all: the court of justice has held that the principle of equal treatment for men and women is not precluded by article 2 of the treaty on european union. secondly: the selection and application process should not be based on gender but on the qualities and competences of the individuals. thirdly: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in norway, where a women's quota was introduced in 2003, firms have suffered a decline in value. fourthly: women who really want to get to the top do so on their own.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. - mr president, i should first like to congratulate the two rapporteurs on their worthy introduction to this subject. i have been a member of this parliament for quite some time, almost 19 years. i have held speaking engagements in that capacity in the country where i was elected, in the netherlands. i have had groups of visitors in brussels and strasbourg. i would like to say that i have never spoken to a group that was not asked in some way: what is this nonsense about meeting in brussels and strasbourg? i think europe is and has been given an extremely bad name for continuing this circus. i am in favour of one seat in the european parliament and the european parliament must be able to decide for itself. i do think france should be compensated. why should we not have the summit of heads of government - all the attention of the press, radio and television is on it - in strasbourg in the future and why should we not move it to brussels.
the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. - mr president, food is a strategic asset and there are fewer and fewer young farmers in europe who can provide our daily bread. every young farmer i speak to does so with great enthusiasm, but above all he demands that europe give him a fair chance. and then i have three concerns. first of all, young entrepreneurs are ambitious when it comes to sustainable production, but they want to be measured by results. i think the current greening is more like detailed rules - almost hoops that entrepreneurs have to jump through like trained poodles to get to their basic premium - than a real incentive. they want equal treatment on the market and not to import products which do not meet the standards we in europe set for our entrepreneurs. in fact, they do not want us to ban lead-acid batteries in europe first and then allow the european commission to accept as perfectly normal that products which are still produced in this way in europe are being put on the market in a vacuum. and entrepreneurs want clarity and clarity. no european commission trying to convince her through all sorts of back rooms and delegated acts. we will be busy in the coming years adjusting this deal and i hope that in doing so we will listen more to young entrepreneurs and to the common sense of farmers.
in writing. − cyprus is faced with an extreme crisis, and i have abstained on granting additional funds to the country as, despite the fact that i am against the ever-increasing eu budget, eu-driven austerity policies have exacerbated the crisis in countries such as greece, spain and cyprus. thus, there is not only a need for extra funds for the countries in crisis, but there is also an urgent need for a shift in policy.
in writing. - i support the new cap on many points; i am sorry, however, that i had to abstain in the final vote. i cannot agree with the greening requirement that farmers should withdraw 5 per cent of their area from food production. this requirement creates a disproportionate burden. i think that farmers should at least have been given an alternative interpretation which does not require the withdrawal of agricultural land from food production.
i am glad that the framework for innovation policy for next year is ready. it is also the final piece of the innovation union. thank you to teresa riera madurell for leading this and to all those who contributed to it, like marisa matias, and also to other colleagues who have worked hard on this. thank you also for the good work done by the eit. there are important improvements in european policy, such as a focus on societal challenges, a special pillar for businesses and simplification of administrative procedures. but it is important that we are concrete, that the money is well-targeted - not wasteful - and that the bureaucracy is actually reduced. but this is only the beginning of making the european union a true innovation union, and much more is needed. i will give you five priorities, commissioner. make innovation a top priority for europe. the 70 billion is a lot of money, but still far too little compared with the 370 billion that goes to agriculture. if the eu is to truly create growth and jobs, much more resources must be devoted to innovation. the most important thing about innovation is that it actually gets to the market. i still see too little focus on bringing it to market. there's too much focus on research. the real innovation is ultimately entrepreneurship and the market. innovation goes hand in hand with european regulation, because innovation is not just about spending money or programmes. the main thing is to try to use the tools that you have, such as regulations, to contribute to innovation, as has happened, for example, with co2 regulations for cars. but it turns out that this regulation can be more ambitious each time, as for example with car noise levels. implementation is also often lacking. the will is there, but the implementation is not. i would like to make two final points. a more holistic approach is needed, with coordination between national and regional policies. and citizens can innovate too. it is they, as innovators, as creators and ultimately as consumers, who are really driving innovation. we do innovation mainly by setting our priorities and not being too nationalistic and not just looking at the funds, but at the goal. the solution, namely to strengthen competitiveness and create jobs, is and will remain a top priority not only at national level but also at european level.
president, commissioner, it is a great pleasure to be here today. firstly, because the regional investment funds were adopted this afternoon. what strikes me is that this is where knowledge comes first. if you set up horizon here today with your budget, you will also have a very large horizon 2 from the ground up in your hands, provided you promote a good way of working together in the regions and cities. i think that's a very important result. what we have achieved in the whole negotiation - we had to consult the council 80 times because it was not that far along - is a multi-fund approach. we have laid down in the texts exactly how the structural funds and horizon funds can be used for exchanges, for training students and people working in companies. so there's a lot more to horizon than what's out there. i should have had mr hahn with me. two ladies is nice, but the hahn can't be missing in this frame. the commissioner was here yesterday. i 'm just saying , we can take an important step now, but i think we have to integrate a lot more in 2020. there is still a wall between the excellence objectives and the rest. i believe that europe deserves an integrated approach in the new european commission, not one that is turned against each other. i myself have now been working as a shadow rapporteur at the eit and i am very happy that the eit is getting its 2.6 billion relaunch. i am glad that we are not only getting a kick out of working with the regions, but that my proposal for regional innovation centres has been accepted by the council and that we can now go in that direction again with money from the investment funds. europe is not just about centres of excellence or regions of excellence. there are a lot of runners-up and we need to reach people in the new member states. it is important to promote the ladder to excellence in order to increase earnings in europe. that's what we can do together. my compliments to all the colleagues and everyone who worked on it.
madam president, intensified cooperation in terms of defence is indispensable if europe wants to play its role on the global stage. but while we are catching up from a fragmented policy, to reach a more integrated policy in europe, the character of defence and security itself is changing. especially in new fields involving new technologies and lacking matching policies we ought to get it right from the start. many key questions remain unanswered. will the eu develop offensive capacity in the context of cyber defence to avert threats to critical infrastructure and, if we do, how can we avoid a cyber-arms race? meanwhile, technologies that undermine our strategic position and the human rights of people in third countries alike go on being exported unchecked. we cannot credibly talk about cyber security if we do not stop the trade in digital arms. we hear of eu member states joining forces to develop a drone. in what kind of operations is its use foreseen and how do these initiatives relate to european ambitions? who would have to authorise the use of offensive capacities on behalf of the eu? in order to make the cfsp future-proof the difficult questions concerning democratic oversight, command and control must be clarified.
president, the dutch citizens are experiencing the consequences of the eu's misguided policies on a daily basis. they see their money disappear into bottomless pits of subsidies for the most foolish of purposes and their control is being reduced bit by bit. the commission also comes here with idiotic programme objectives, wrapped up in a story that is nothing more than theoretical book nonsense. for example, national policy makers who you think should feel more closely involved in the eu's objectives. the pvv believes that national policy-makers should be guided by national governments and national parliaments, not indoctrinated by brussels bureaucrats. you also want to modernise the union's legislation and facilitate social experiments. the pvv believes that the most social experiment you can carry out is to stop and abolish your legislation and return all the money to the contributing member states. in short: not one billion euros to vague social fairy tales.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the committee on employment and social affairs started asking for a social dimension to economic governance some time in 2011. the council was then still in a state of panic, trying to make the financial markets happy by assuring them that we would cut and cut and cut again. our committee quickly realised that this would have an enormous social price: that poverty would rise, that unemployment would rise, that inequality would rise. people would feel abandoned by their governments and by us. that is exactly what happened and, in crisis countries especially, the social situation has become unacceptable – families have been evicted, people have been left without healthcare – without food even – and people are angry at europe, at politics and at life. in several reports we have therefore expressed the need for a true social europe, and now, finally, there is something on the table: plans for rating countries not only along economic lines, but also along social lines, and plans to introduce a stabiliser. commissioner, i thank you for this. it is a bit late, but better late than never. now, it is time to make sure that these social considerations have a meaningful impact on economic policies, because up to now member states have been asked on the one hand to cut even more, while, on the other hand, being asked to alleviate poverty and unemployment. the fact that these things might be in contradiction with one another has not really been addressed. we need to address the fact that, in some countries, cutting a little less now might actually make their finances more sustainable for the future. we need to address the fact that in europe we have certain social standards and we do not want to drop below them, because we are europe and we do not let people slide into poverty. we do not let people go without healthcare or without basic provisions. other continents might do that, but we are europe and we do not. my colleagues on the right, who are not here now, have surprised me somewhat. they voted for all the reports, but now, when there is something tangible on the table, they seem to be backing out. do they really want social indicators to be nothing more than measurements – to have no policy impact – so that we can see how horribly poverty and unemployment are rising and we can say ‘oh, look’ but not really do anything about it? do they not want the commission even to explore the possibilities for dampening macroeconomic shocks in the future in order to keep the european economy safe? i call on all of us, because people in europe need us now more than ever. let us take action for a true social europe!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am afraid we have not attracted huge crowds for this life financial instrument, but that does not mean that it is not extremely important. it is relatively small, but it is one of the most successful financial instruments that the european union has and that is why i am extremely satisfied that we are not only increasing it, but also continuing it. i must say that i was surprised by the attitude of the member states on the life instrument: first of all, on the co-financing rate that they were asking for. they seemed to be willing to shift the responsibility of nature and environment progress totally to the european level and onto the national allocations. the success of life is that it is quality-driven and defining the money before looking at the quality of projects is per definition not quality-driven. i am afraid it was another example of how the member states think of the eu budget and am very glad that both parliament and the commission avoided the destruction of the life instrument. i have two remarks and two questions for the commissioner. first of all, we are celebrating life here, but a few weeks ago commissioner barroso put nature legislation on his refit list, and it was among those areas of what he called ‘small things’. i would ask the commissioner whether nature legislation in the eu is among the small things, or are we talking about one of the most important areas we have? the other question is that the funds are limited and we see huge cuts in budgets for nature conservation at national level as well. according to the commission’s own staff working paper, we are only spending 20% of what we should spend on nature conservation. is the european commission willing to make an analysis of what we are going to spend in the next couple of years on nature conservation and see whether that is sufficient to meet our targets for the biodiversity strategy?
blue-card question. – mr president, i thank ms mcguinness for her support for the life instrument, but yesterday we voted on the common agricultural policy proposals, on the total package, and if we have done one thing as a parliament it has been to water down the greening of the common agricultural policy. ms mcguinness, how can you reconcile your position now, when you talk about the importance of more sustainable agriculture in europe, with the position of your group in watering down the greening of the cap?
we are talking today, mr president, about european legislation on national taxation, and i emphasize the word 'national'. the european parliament is very keen to introduce european taxes, but fortunately there are none yet. at present, the treaty leaves the member states in full control of taxation. there is now a commission proposal for a law, a bill that costs 223 million euros, but which is contrary to the treaty. the commission has chosen article 114 as the legal basis for the proposal, and that is the article on the functioning of the internal market. that is completely incorrect. there is no trading in tax returns at all. the member states lose their veto power on the basis of article 114. it is now possible to force member states to adjust their tax laws, and that cannot happen. you can't have total control and be forced to do it. as so often, the legal basis was chosen so that the european commission could acquire as much power as possible, supported by this european parliament, which is not waiting for sovereign member states either. mr president, there could have been a legal basis where the veto, a possible veto by the member states, would have been respected, but that was deliberately not chosen. this report shows that brussels does not take the treaty seriously. if parliament is going to take this treaty seriously, we have no choice but to reject it. so the pvv is going to do that.
i would like to thank the president of the court of auditors for his report, which unfortunately is not a good report. but i would also like to say that i am very surprised and also very sorry that the council does not even bother to be present at this debate. it is a lot of mistakes made in the member states, not by the commission. that is why it is all the more regrettable that the council is not here. yeah, it's the 19th time in a row that there's been a negative das, and that's not good news. it is getting worse, and the commission has also acknowledged this. i'm just wondering, this system change, how big of a deal was it? and how many times in the last few years have we had a system change for calculating that margin of error? it should not happen too often, because then, i thought, we would have a harder time comparing the figures. another question i have to ask the court of auditors is about the 2%. is it really realistic to demand it for the european budget? how many member states meet the european court of auditors' standards for achieving a positive das? does the court of auditors have any idea about that? we'll have to decide what to do in the next few months. should we give the commission a discharge or not? the commission is in its final year and it might help if we did not grant discharge. that will give the new commission an extra impetus to come up with a new programme. but we don't know yet. i welcome the commission's decision to set up a working group on the member state declaration. i believe that the whole problem lies within the member states themselves and we must ensure that someone in those member states is politically accountable. i would like to make one final comment. that is not the fault of the court of auditors but it is clearly the fault of the council, which is unfortunately not here. i think it is a bad thing for the european court of auditors, however, that there is one member who thinks he can afford not to tell the truth to this parliament. that is bad for relations with the european parliament and it is bad for the image of the european court of auditors.
president. - i thank mr caldeira very much for presenting the annual report, which i find very alarming, not even because of the error rate, however high. that's where all the attention is going. no, mainly because of the last sentence in the court's press release. and i quote: 'in many areas of the eu budget [...] there is too little performance-orientation. the proposals on agriculture and cohesion for the 2014-2020 programming period remain essentially input-based (expenditure-based) and are therefore still more focused on compliance than on efficiency.' the member states see the european budget as a money-distribution machine and not as an investment budget to achieve important goals for europe. we had a debate this morning on the life financial instrument. the member states - and i was present at the negotiations - wanted to divide the pot even before any projects had been submitted. and the special reports of the european court of auditors also show, especially in the field of rural policy, that the attitude of the member states is destructive. now, mr president, it's been sealed for seven years. the member states are not only undermining the support for europe, but also the added value of the european union. the member states are showing a complete lack of responsibility for where we are going with europe. the absence of the council here is significant in this respect, but so is the blocking by national parliaments of steps towards a european public prosecutor's office to finally begin serious work on a joint fight against the misuse of european money. but, mr president, i do not want to focus on the member states alone, because the european commission is in principle in charge now. the plans are set for the next seven years and this requires a very firm stance on the part of the european commission to ensure that the money is not only spent in the best way but that we also get the results we want. so my question to the commission is: how does the commission intend to prevent us from missing the targets for another seven years and becoming an input-only operation? and is the commission prepared to do much more to achieve these objectives? for example, does the commission intend to freeze budget lines - as far as the commission is able to do so - if the targets are not met? this is a desperate call for the commission to be not the secretariat of the member states but an independent strong guardian of european interests.
mr president, we shall see it as a sign of solidarity between the political groups that the epp president has given the floor to a socialist twice in succession. we are also the worst not in the epp. i thank the court of auditors, as do many of my colleagues, for the very thorough work it has done, but the structural problem in this area - and many of my colleagues have already said this - remains a matter of course. a large part of the funds is managed by member states and the european court of auditors and the european commission simply have far too little insight into this. the court of auditors can then change the methodology and the european commission can say that the control frameworks for the structural funds, for example, are better for the coming period. we'll have to see. i think in agriculture, for example, we have only made it more complicated and more difficult to control. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i understand that for some member states in the council it is not a problem at all that this is reducing support, for example, not only for the european budget but for the european union as a whole. unfortunately, some members of the council are fine with that. but i find it shameful that the european commission has not made it a priority to do something about it. because we can do something about it. through national management declarations. i'm sure you're familiar with the term, commissioner. it was a point which this parliament insisted on when it appointed you. you almost didn't get that chair because you weren't ambitious enough in this field. you made a statement with flour in your mouth to get the seat, but in the end we have seen nothing in recent years of the commission in this field. we're having a task force over. specific question to the european commission: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he will give me a guarantee that before this commissioner leaves office there will be concrete proposals for a template for finally uniform national management declarations from the member states?
mr president, on a point of order, many members complained during the debate about the absence of representatives of the council presidency, and i would like to ask you to convey that message to the president of this house, martin schulz. i suggest that he send a letter to the council about their absence, and that he might also address this question in either the conference of presidents or the bureau – i do not know which of these bodies we ought to approach to see whether we should in future refrain from having this debate if the council is not present.
in writing. the error rate for 2012 is already higher than the previous year. many commitments from previous years have not yet been spent, putting additional pressure on cash flows and potentially increasing the risk of errors, according to the european court of auditors. i think it is unacceptable that the percentage that should not have been paid has been rising for three years. simplifying the rules would help to reverse this tide. but that's not the only answer. the authorities in the member states had the information to correct more than half of the errors made. the control systems in the member states are therefore not working properly. this underlines the importance of national management declarations. the european commission rightly wants to cut funding for member states if they only discover irregularities after the presentation of the annual accounts. the commission's role in the european union is to ensure that the european union's financial instruments are properly used and that the european commission is able to enforce better financial management.
mr president, i understand from reports in the media that e-mail accounts and telephone accounts of members of this house and their staff have been hacked. i understand that the press department has been asked for a reaction but none has been given so far. apparently, hacking our accounts is extremely easy. it was done by somebody who wanted to demonstrate the weaknesses in the security of our system. for a long time we have been worried about the protection of our it systems. i hope that the presidency of this house is going to take this signal very seriously and resolve the matter as quickly as possible, and not in a bureaucratic manner but with all the technical expertise that we need in order to make sure that we can communicate safely. (applause)
author. − mr president, the circumstances of migrant workers in qatar, and human rights in general, have long been of concern to us, but they are now in the spotlight because of the world cup planned for 2022 and, by then, approximately 4 000 migrant workers will have died if the present rate does not change. abuse, dependence and modern-day slavery are not of our time. there should be no place for them in any advanced economy and qatar should show equal ambition to address human rights problems as it seeks to improve its standing on the global stage. we also expect a clear stance from football organisations such as fifa and eu companies which must adhere to the oecd principles and the un’s ‘ruggie’ principles. there ought to be no room for modern day slavery, especially in countries with which many eu member states in the eu have partnerships or strategic considerations in other fields.
author. − mr president, i shall be very short. in 2009 four europeans died in a shooting and two have been kept in pre-trial detention since then in bolivia. we asked the bolivian authorities to ensure a fair and independent trial for mr tóásó and mr tadić, and we also asked for an independent investigation with international experts into the deaths of the other four europeans back in 2009.
i am not in favour of the final result, mr president, and i am thinking in particular of two points. firstly, the discard ban, the landing obligation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. nobody really knows how to do that. everyone knows that mixed fisheries produce by-catches. and that brings me straight to my second point. there is a technique to reduce by-catch enormously, called pulse fishing. a few volts stimulate the fish to swim into the floating net. the result: the bottom is not affected, fuel is saved, fishing is very effective without by-catch. but that technique, mr president, is not allowed anywhere. i find it really incomprehensible that this innovative method is not given a chance. therefore, mr president, in view of both this difficult landing obligation and the pulse ban, i cannot vote for the recommendation for the second reading.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new fisheries policy has not given the sector a proper hearing. there are deadlines written on paper behind desks that are impossible to meet. in the north sea, a full landing obligation is not feasible. how, then, should this unworkable policy be implemented? the commission does not know and is blaming the fisheries sector. i don't think that's fair. i know. our fishermen are ambitious and skilled, but they cannot do the impossible. i therefore urge the commissioner to really listen to the fishermen. in practical terms, this means that unrealistic deadlines for the landing obligation must still be adjusted during the process, for example through the multiannual plans. is the commissioner prepared to do that? i would urge the commissioner to keep an eye on the human dimension, because only then will policy be environmentally, economically and socially sustainable.
mr president, commissioner, today we are debating again a fisheries agreement with morocco. once again the pvv will vote against. the proposed convention is no better than the earlier proposal which this parliament rightly rejected. the cost-benefit ratio is completely off. the current state of fish stocks cannot be measured because there is no good scientific data. the human rights of the inhabitants of western sahara are not respected and we are going to pay for fishing in open international waters if the commission decides to do so. as a further blow to the arrow, british, polish and dutch fishermen have already indicated that they will not fish under the new convention, because the costs do not outweigh the benefits. it is a matter of the european parliament's right to decide on the matter. almost half of the eu contribution goes to developing the fisheries sector in morocco. that is disguised development aid and it has no place in a fisheries agreement. the dutch taxpayer is also paying for something he has no say in. this is also the worst treaty since the treaty of lisbon. let us hope that this parliament will throw the proposed treaty into the trash again tomorrow. if the pvv is to succeed, there will never be another treaty on the table and we will let morocco boil in its fish bowl.
president, the european union is in the news a lot, especially now that the elections are coming up and we have to be honest, the news about us is not always positive. this is of course partly due to the euro crisis we are currently experiencing. we'll be in the news for good when it comes to the regional funds, because of course everyone wants to take advantage of that. unfortunately, the settlement of regional debts is not always satisfactory. on the other hand, we see that the interest in the justice programme is actually quite low, whereas within the european union - even if we restrict things to the internal market - judicial cooperation and, in particular, knowledge of the law are of enormous importance. how can we make a single market work without knowledge of contract law, commercial law, trademark law, consumer law and so on? i agree with the rapporteur, mr claeys, entirely. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i strongly support the training aspect of the 2014-2020 justice programme. but at the same time i say to the commissioner: we should not be under any illusions about knowing that right. the knowledge of european law in the various countries is very limited and this is a source of concern. i have two other comments to make in that regard. first of all, the budget. the budget will remain the same, but at the same time you have to ask yourself whether it is sufficient in this time. so we'll just have to wait and see. finally, the link with the stockholm programme. i would ask you to ensure that there is coherence between the various programmes.
president, the report on the rights and citizenship programme for the period 2014-2020 is another typical example of eu propaganda. the first thing i want to stress is that this programme should not be extended beyond the elections. why should we start putting aside a lot of money now to start bothering people again with all kinds of movies, with ninja warriors or with cute chicks? an additional eur 440 million is also earmarked for this programme. it is not even clear at this stage where exactly that money is going. if there is no accountability in advance, it is doubtful that there will be any accountability afterwards. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there is no such thing as a european citizen, and if you want to talk about a citizen, you have to talk about the eu citizen. that's something else entirely. europe is a beautiful continent. the eu is a terrible organisation which must be dismantled as soon as possible.
i have always been very much against the emissions trading system for two reasons. firstly, it is a communist system where the state basically forces companies to trade with each other without any scientific justification whatsoever. of course, prices are lower now. the report's authors attribute this to the crisis, but it is of course simply the market itself that intervenes when the government demands far too much from them and does not explain why. so at the moment, the market is acting on its own. and then it is really true that at such a moment the government - in this case parliament - decides to change the rules because we do not agree with the results. furthermore, it has not yet been clearly demonstrated that man-made co2 is responsible for global warming. that is why we must get rid of the co2 system as quickly as possible, if only because it is damaging our aviation, our inland waterways and our transport sector. that is why it is important to get rid of the system as soon as possible.
in writing. the report calls on the member states to guarantee women's sexual and reproductive rights. the sp naturally considers it important that these rights are properly regulated. we were always assured that the eu would not deal with issues such as abortion, because it has no competence to do so. in my report on criminal law, which was adopted by the ep a year and a half ago, i advocate a very cautious approach. only clearly transnational crimes can justify european legislation. abortion is a matter for the member states to decide. the report is a non-legislative report, but the fact that the ep is now dealing with it is a first step towards legislation. i have no confidence that this report will not be used for commission proposals on sexual and reproductive rights in general and abortion in particular. i support the substance of the report. i'm not interested in the right to abortion. the netherlands has a good system for this right. but because sexual and reproductive rights are not and should not be a matter for the eu, i cannot vote in favour of the report. i therefore abstained.
i support the demonstrators who are now standing with eu flags in kiev, fighting for their own future, a future in which ukraine can become prosperous and democratic. a future with a european face. but, mr president, these young people must regret that they have become the pawns of a geopolitical game, a game of pure power. we must say out loud, mr president, that this association is still open, an association which can be historic for the eu, but certainly also for all those people who are demonstrating in ukraine today, because that association agreement also provides for other things, namely more democracy and adequate justice in ukraine too. we will have to do everything we can to keep those negotiations open.
- i'm the reporter. - today south africa remembers nelson mandela. today is human rights day. we are here to decide what role the european union should play in the world. it is the foundation of my commitment in the european parliament that the eu can prove its added value in the world by helping to increase people's opportunities, rights and freedoms through political influence, trade, investment and aid. five of the ten fastest growing economies are in africa. this growth would not have been possible without long-term investment by donors from all over the world - europe at the forefront - in education, health, infrastructure and governance. the world map of poverty is changing fast. meanwhile, there are still painfully sharp contrasts between rich and poor, within developing countries and within our own region. minorities and people with disabilities are excluded, and women are often excluded as well. development cooperation is undergoing a profound change. it's about inclusive growth, about access to education, access to health care, access to financial services, access to opportunities for small entrepreneurs, like farmers. the development cooperation instrument will therefore provide more opportunities for loan-grant combinations. inclusive growth will not happen without accountable, accountable governments, with transparent governance, elected by the entire people. as long as the voice of the poorest is not heard in their capitals, poverty will continue. this is why the eu will invest more in civil society organisations, local government and the strengthening of parliaments. sustainability should also be integrated into development policy, including the fight against the effects of climate change. that is why europe is investing in renewable energy, in measures that combat poverty and that are also effective in combating the effects of global warming. aid to farmers in the sahel is one example. president. - the list of countries with bilateral programmes is almost halved. only the poorest countries will remain, and rightly so. yet the eu remains active in countries like india, for example to support organisations working for the most vulnerable people. the amendments tabled by parliament have been largely accepted. the human rights approach has been considerably strengthened. there's going to be more for fair growth and jobs, more for food security, and there's going to be a little bit less focus on energy. at least 20 percent of this budget will go to social services such as education, health and water. this brought about greater balance in the financial choices. there is also a greater emphasis on the link between emergency aid and development policy. the results of aid must be better measurable in the future, with clear indicators and they must therefore be systematic. of course, this negotiation result is a compromise. parliament is given much less scrutiny of the european commission's strategic choices than we had in mind. elmar brok mentioned it before. democratic control is not a gift to anyone, not even to european citizens in this parliament. the strategic dialogue on the commission's choices does provide an opportunity for critical policy monitoring. it's up to us how seriously we take that opportunity. this parliament, like any parliament, should be more than a legislator, more than the voting power of the electorate. the third task which this parliament must take on in future is to: monitoring the implementation of the policy. as rapporteur, i am proud of the outcome of the negotiations between parliament and the council on the basis of the excellent commission proposal. i can't thank everyone here. but i thank the shadow rapporteurs, the european commission, the external action service, the lithuanian presidency for its very constructive attitude and commitment, the extremely expert staff of the european parliament's committee on development cooperation and in particular my excellent colleague tessel van westen, who has saved me many mistakes and has consistently ensured that the essence of what we wanted to achieve and what we have achieved is safeguarded. a europe that will direct aid to the poorest countries and give priority in the years ahead to human rights and sustainability in a just globalisation.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs. − madam president, the negotiations on ipa were harder than they should have been, i think. we are all in favour of this instrument that encourages reform and helps accession countries get closer to the eu. ipa ii, i think, is an improvement on the previous one, with a less strict division between the pillars and more possibilities for smaller organisations and municipalities in the region to carry out smaller projects. i hope that balkan countries will grab these opportunities. i hope that, for instance, montenegro will develop ecologically-friendly tourism in the north while at the same time training unemployed people to work in this field. none of that was the problem in the ipa negotiations. one of the main problems was how to refer to kosovo because of the five non-recognisers. to the ordinary citizens that i told about this, the issue seems totally insane – and that is because it is. let me therefore conclude by calling on the five eu member states that do not recognise kosovo for reasons that have nothing whatsoever to do with kosovo. please stop holding back a small new country in its efforts to reform, to be a modern european member state. even serbia is being more conciliatory, more sensible and, i dare say, more mature about this than you are. so take your example from them and stop being ridiculous.
madam president, how often have we heard ministers, the high representative and others speak about how more for more would frame a more values-based eu policy towards neighbouring countries? after years of interest-based approaches at the expense of people’s rights and after all these speeches and two years of negotiation, one would have expected a better european neighbourhood instrument than the one we see today. financing has a flexibility of 10% up or down and this house wanted more of an incentive. additionally, the commission and the council chose control and the status quo on a bureaucratic level over more flexibility in the programmes so that we can actually ensure that money ends up benefiting people in countries from egypt to the ukraine. transparency and accountability need to be in place to prevent repetitions of the report of the court of auditors on egypt, which raised questions on whether the eu funds accomplish our goals. i believe the people in europe’s neighbourhood now more than ever need our support based on european values such as democracy, respect for human rights and based on the rule of law. governments of these countries sadly are not the best interlocutors as they do not have the well-being of their people in mind at all times.
- i'm the reporter. - in this whole discussion, we seem to agree on the principles of the european union's external policy worldwide. there is a coherent approach to each of the components of this external policy. it is only to be hoped that geopolitical strategic interests will be less of an obstacle to poverty reduction than they have been up to now. but all too often, stability in the region is more important than tackling corrupt regimes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. helmut scholz rightly pointed that out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for coherence, the noses in the commission, the member states and parliament should indeed be pointed in the same direction. our commercial and industrial interests must not interfere with the opportunities of poor countries. the lisbon treaty also prohibits this. legislation is one thing, but its implementation depends on political will. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat poverty. and yet europe itself is stagnating economically. our opportunities are now outside europe, we must work for more prosperity, more peace and more rights worldwide. the fight against poverty is a moral duty and a european strategic investment.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, albania has been taking important steps towards meeting the eu criteria but, while we acknowledge that, this parliament clearly defines the many areas where work needs to be done. our list is long and includes the need to address tackling corruption and the need to reform public administration, eradicating organised crime, improving media freedom and independence, safeguarding the rights of various minorities, including roma and lgbt, overcoming the political polarisation that runs deeply through society, reforming the judiciary and ensuring its independence, promoting a genuine dialogue between civil society and government, and guaranteeing the well-being of those who depend on the state, whether in prison or mentally ill. the liberal group supports the commission’s position on granting albania candidate status, which should not be mistaken for membership of the eu in any way. in election years especially, we must be clear about managing expectations and ensuring that debates about enlargement are fact-based. the same goes for addressing albanian audiences. this is not a reward for one government or another, but rather a signal to all albanians to encourage them to move forward with the many remaining reforms towards meeting the copenhagen criteria. we have the well-being of the people in mind, which should benefit from continuing to walk down the european path.
madam president, i would like to congratulate albania on the most positive report we have been able to write about the country in years. congratulations to mr berisha, who stepped aside after the elections without a fuss, a first in albania’s democratic history, i think. congratulations to mr rama who managed to finally finish albania’s european homework. however, we should not trust that the very recent past of political bickering and paralysis of political process because of the deep divisions between the main parties is completely in the past now. let us commend albania on what has gone well and let us ask to see an extended track record of constructive political cooperation before we shout halleluiah. as a final remark i would like to say that it is quite unhelpful for some members of the s&d group and some members of the ppe group, though absolutely not all, to mix their own party politics with those in albania. there is clearly enough trouble with party politics in albania itself without us taking sides, so let us hope that the ministers will give albania a chance to move ahead in its reform process, and let us hope that the albanian political parties on all sides will take that chance with both hands.
for the epp group on november 30, shirin ebadi and payam akhavan published an op-ed in the washington post under the clear headline "in iran, human rights cannot be sacrificed for a nuclear deal". i also find this message in paragraph 70 of the excellent kukan report. i earnestly hope that all the european institutions, including our own house, in future contacts with official representatives of the islamic republic of iran, will defend the basic fundamental rights of iranian citizens and openly and concretely identify violations. the conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear agreement means that the international community, the european union, cannot remain silent about the alarming increase in the number of executions in recent weeks, about the continuing persecution of religious and ethnic minorities. i think, for example, of the iranian-american pastor abedini. i hope the special representative will work for his release. ladies and gentlemen, take note of the un report on the human rights situation in iran this autumn. for example, on page 6 i read that since the beginning of this year iran has had a special machine that accelerates the execution of amputations in public. how awful!
i have found the past few years as spokesman for my group on the globalisation fund very instructive. the applications were a gauge to see which sectors were in trouble in the crisis, which countries and regions were hit the hardest. unfortunately, the applications also showed that far too little is being done. the decline of the flemish textile industry, for example, could have been predicted long ago. and then one could have made preventive plans to restructure that industry and retrain the workers in time. on the positive side, the european globalisation adjustment fund has brought a lot of good to people in very, very need in a lot of countries. mobility centres have been set up in countries and regions where there were none. a surprising number of people have returned to work, including people over 50. i think we've achieved a good result in the negotiations. the globalisation fund can never replace good and forward-looking labour market policies, but it gives people who lose their jobs in these times of crisis hope and the prospect of new jobs, and that is invaluable right now!
president. - the globalisation fund is facilitating unemployment and favouring large companies over small ones and the self-employed. entrepreneurship involves both opportunities and risks, and it has both prospects and setbacks. the existence of a richly endowed globalisation fund upsets that balance. economic hardship or, for example, the choice of relocating a company, is then met by society rather than by the companies. the globalisation fund therefore distorts competition and places the costs of running large companies on the taxpayer. the commission has also been very active in the fight against unemployment, and has been very active in the fight against unemployment. the pvv sees more than enough reasons to abolish the globalisation fund today.
president, the european union is thinking to itself: let us talk about something else in the midst of the crisis, namely, more military cooperation. the crisis must not, of course, be allowed to diminish the fun here, and so there are plans for eu combat forces, a permanent operational headquarters, joint financing of operations and even plans for european drones. and of course, preferably all paid for by the eu budget. there is a danger that a lot of taxpayers' money will be thrown at the establishment of all sorts of military institutions and bureaucracies within the eu. the european union is all too eager to play the superpower. but the citizen has no use for these expensive and pointless federal hobbies, because the motive behind these plans is, of course, to create a european federal state with its own army. the dutch armed forces must remain entirely in national hands and where we cooperate, we do so bilaterally and within nato. a european union army, that never! i hope that the forthcoming summit on european military cooperation will end in one great disappointment. that is the only good outcome and in the interests of the netherlands. and i would like to say to mr brok in particular: despite your dislike of populist parties, the big turning point will be the elections next may and there will be a new wind in the european parliament.
the next summit, mr president, will focus on european defence policy, or rather on the european defence industry. but economic cooperation and the further development of economic union are also on the agenda. in this respect, fundamental steps are being taken again, as was done last night by the finance ministers, towards an intergovernmentally organized resolution fund, following the example of the intergovernmentally organized emergency fund. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. the european summit seems to be blind to democratic control of the european commission. the european commission is gaining more and more power and political control is increasingly being exercised by the european commission. when will we really ensure that the european commission is democratically controlled? in conclusion: the social europe. there are two meagre paragraphs in the conclusions on a social europe. does europe have a social future, or does it not, according to the leaders of the governments?
mr president, i still do not understand why we are talking about housework in this parliament. let it be. i would like to speak about the fact that migrants who want to work in domestic work must have a valid employment contract or some other form of proof as soon as they cross the border. i would like to see this in an even broader perspective, namely that every migrant from any eu member state who wants to settle and work in an average european country must have a valid employment contract before crossing the border. that is unfortunately an illusion for the future!
in writing. − while i believe this is an improvement on the previous programme, i do not support this outcome of the negotiations. development policy is first and foremost a national task for the member states. the eu should focus on coordinating the assistance provided by the member states.
mr president, when i came to this parliament in 2009, i was a member of the committee on budgets. one of the first meetings asked 'do you have any ideas for the european globalisation adjustment fund, because the money is running out?' there was 500 million euros in that pot. it is now 429 million euros, but it is still a lot of money for a fund which is actually a very strange vehicle. the fund is designed to respond to the liberalization of markets in europe. on the one hand, we say: more member states, open borders, free movement of goods, people, services. on the other hand, we say, if there is scaling up, if there is liberalisation, then all of a sudden we have money for people who are unemployed. i think that is a market operation and nothing more, and that is what we should applaud. and if it is used for people who are unemployed as a result, it seems to me that it is better to call the fund a 'victim fund' rather than a globalisation fund.
president. - the member states are bound not only by the treaty of lisbon but also by separate financial agreements. this is an unclear situation in the field of public law, and the rapporteur rightly raises this point. but the rapporteur's counter-proposals only add to the problem. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the european parliament, the council and the commission. the european central bank will thus become a political institution once and for all. mr president, monetary policy is not a political game, but a crucial technical part of our economy. the proposal to allow the european parliament to adopt treaty amendments is also contrary to the sovereign position of the member states. the european parliament is a servant of the treaty, not its master. my party cannot therefore approve this proposal. i am concerned that even the committee on constitutional affairs is now ignoring the treaty. where is the citizen and where is the rule of law in this discussion?
mr president, we are dealing here with a framework for maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management. it is a directive which we should not be discussing at all. there are no less than 11 subsidiarity concerns raised against this proposal, and they are all justified. the eu is not about spatial planning and this directive is therefore simply contrary to the treaty. the european commission has conveniently ignored all these subsidiarity concerns. it seems that everything is permissible in the face of the further federalisation and the growing power of unelected brussels bureaucrats. the commission is going too far and interfering with national affairs through this invasive directive by packaging policy as necessary eu coordination. the commission then starts to talk about 'coordinated action' and 'sustainable development' and, by justifying its intervention with nonsense about erosion, climate change and natural disasters, it puts the whole thing to sleep. on behalf of the many dutch people who are sick and tired of the eu's increasingly brazen drive for rules, i say to the commission: "stay out of our zoning, pack your bags and go home!"
president. - we are living in a time of financial crisis and we see that every euro, whether public or private, is turned over three times before it is spent. well , in that regard , i have some wonderful news . green infrastructure investments are incredibly lucrative. you might even say: six to get, one to pay. i'll name them for you. especially in and around cities, the effects are enormous. you'll get cleaner air. you give people the opportunity to move. and these two together have a very positive effect on public health. it leads to more social cohesion. it has an excellent effect on biodiversity. you see that real estate, houses, are going up in value. finally, mr president, the business climate is being considerably strengthened. in other words, six take, pay one, when you invest in green infrastructure. so you would expect that investment in green infrastructure is a sine qua non of investment in ordinary grey infrastructure. but unfortunately, nothing could be further from the truth. if you look at the spending through the structural funds, through the social funds, through the other infrastructure works, you see that the green element always comes to the very end, while it has such a terribly positive return. i would therefore also like to call on the commission not only to come here with beautiful stories about natura 2000, about the importance of green infrastructure, but to be much more critical in assessing grey infrastructure and only then to authorize projects if there is also attention to green infrastructure.
president draghi, i would like to thank you for your commitment to shaping and implementing the monetary policy of the euro area in an independent and fair manner. fortunately, the euro storm seems to be coming to an end, but this also threatens to dampen the sense of urgency, and i see this as a great risk. the epp group does not want to be complacent, but to be ambitious in its commitment to growth and stability. this requires structural reforms in member states and the restoration of the free movement of capital. and for the record, let there be no ambiguity about this. this parliament does not want to change the mandate of the ecb! president draghi, you have made your commitment with the establishment of the omt and rightly linked it to strict conditionality, and that also applies to the ltro. a temporary measure, because the structural solution is to restore confidence in our banking sector. money has to roll. this is the best guarantee that banks can resume their role as financiers of small and mediumsized enterprises. president, the ecb is going to take over the banking supervision as the single supervisor. you're on course with the preparation. we were informed of this in detail in frankfurt last monday. but you can't walk on one leg. government leaders have promised that there will also be a single resolution authority, and we as co-legislators are committed to delivering that. you will understand that we are concerned about the course the ecofin ministers seem to be taking. a spin-off of the fund into an intergovernmental body could impair the effectiveness of the resolution authority. what is at stake is that the decision-making on the resolution will be left to the member states rather than to a community authority. and what did not work in the stability and growth pact, which we abolished there, we would then introduce here. mr president, that's not going to work! we will decide our position as parliament next week and we are ready for negotiations with the council.
the ecb took unusual policy measures in 2012 due to the exceptional circumstances. the commission has already taken a number of steps towards a banking union. i object strongly to the following step: a common resolution fund for banks. the account of bad loans on the balance sheets of weak banks is being spread over the europeans, without the size of the account being clear. this problematic process involving the ecb is not mentioned, and probably therefore it is not mentioned in this report on the ecb. in addition to austerity and reform, the correct approach to the euro crisis is ultimately to partially write off loans to governments and write off loans to banks. it will take a lot for the ecb to accompany this with the right monetary policy. however, now that the unrest has subsided, she must return to her core task as soon as possible: the commission has already taken a number of measures. i would have liked to have seen this as the central message of the report.
president. - the treaty provides that the european central bank must be politically independent and must pursue monetary stability exclusively. the treaty leaves no room for other considerations. but the bank has been systematically violating the treaty since the financial crisis, for example by buying government bonds (article 123), for example by lowering interest rates to keep the sovereign debts of the southern member states solvent at the expense of all savers in europe. mr draghi also announced that he would continue to finance weak countries without limitation. and in doing so, the ecb is acting politically and therefore the bank is going beyond its mandate. but this parliament is applauding this violation of the treaties. the commission has also proposed that the council should be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the community. a central bank, mr president, cannot be controlled by random political majorities. monetary stability is not a political game. the european union can only rely on the confidence that the european institutions will respect what has been agreed. otherwise, mr president, there is no rule of law.
in writing. - i shall abstain on this resolution. although there are good points in the resolution, the resolution goes too far in giving tasks and responsibilities to the european commission. it is good that the european commission calls on member states to shoulder their responsibilities and to give them incentives, but the european commission should not take on the responsibilities of member states. the commission is already doing a lot to promote the integration of roma. it is the member states themselves that often do not do enough to integrate roma and to implement a national roma integration strategy.
in writing. - i have just abstained from voting on the gue/ngl group's resolution on tax evasion and avoidance. although i support many of the measures mentioned, i cannot agree with a european parliament resolution calling for, among other things, adjustments to income taxation. the eu is not about that.
