in writing. restructuring has become synonymous with mass redundancies in large manufacturing plants. last december, the silesian car factory confirmed a restructuring plan that would see nearly 1,500 workers laid off. during the last plenary session, i made an interpellation to the european commission on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in this case. i agree with the rapporteur that the fund's capacity should be increased to enable it to operate in a more reactive and effective way. i also share his view on the so-called consolidation of national budgets, i.e. the policy of austerity and renunciation which only exacerbates the existing economic crisis. in the present situation, unemployment is continuing to flood europe. the dismissed employees of the companies are usually covered by the aid schemes. the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a new regulation on the protection of workers from the risks of exposure to carcinogens. they are not covered by the european globalisation adjustment fund. it is therefore also necessary to provide support in our countries for those who are made redundant by small businesses and those who are forced to close their own individual businesses. for example, in poland, almost two thirds of small and medium-sized enterprises are self-employed. for many people, entrepreneurship can be a way of surviving a crisis. and yet, here's where you need support.
madam president! there's a saying: "the full understand not the hungry", and i think the working understand not the unemployed. i think that today, if young people are watching our debate, i think they have long since given up hope that politicians will come up with anything good. because it's not the politicians who create jobs, it's the entrepreneurs. how is it that despite all the debates, strategies, programmes, plans, packages and initiatives here in the european parliament and in the commission, we are not seeing any results and young people are unemployed, as they have been, and their numbers are increasing year by year? the initiative is very valuable, the proposal, but it is not the proposal that counts, but the concrete. and i would like to ask the commissioner how the member states should respond to the expectations of the european commission. this initiative also has the character of a recommendation. if countries do not introduce a youth guarantee, will they have any sanctions? because i think that if we don't, we'll have no effect, we'll just continue to argue and thus annoy the young people.
madam president! the council recommendation on the youth guarantee proposed by the european commission will provide a positive political impetus for action by member state governments. however, it is worth noting that several aspects of the project may be problematic during its implementation. the average waiting period for a job offer for young people in some countries is well over four months after leaving school or leaving work. this means that jobs are not available or simply do not exist for these people. in a period of public spending cuts, it will therefore be possible to prepare a good job, traineeship or further education proposal only if all labour market actors, including the people concerned, coordinate their efforts. any action taken under the guarantee must be managed in such a way as to maximise the effects and reduce the cost of funding, and the provision of jobs for young people must not be at the expense of other groups in need of labour market support, such as young mothers who wish to return to the labour market after the birth of a child.
in writing. i think it is very good that we are dealing with the issue of youth unemployment. of course, we will not create jobs for young europeans, but we can create a framework that will help to reduce significantly the risk of losing an entire generation. i am not naive and i know that we will not succeed in persuading the member states to guarantee young people 'good job opportunities', as the draft resolution puts it. however, if a good job offer cannot be provided for young people, then we should offer them another type of activity training, traineeship or vocational training. young europeans should not sit at home doing nothing and convince themselves that everyone has forgotten about them. young people should feel that their situation is not indifferent to the rest of society, that they are needed, that they are an integral and important part of the community. and that is what they are, and their situation will have a significant impact on the future of europe. therefore, measures to increase safeguards are realistic, necessary and even necessary.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? we now have a very good opportunity to achieve synergy between regional policy and energy policy, we have an opportunity to pursue the objectives of both policies simultaneously, to optimise them. this is the first time the european commission has allocated such a large amount of financial resources to the energy sector under the european regional development fund. so the point is to put these funds to good use now. the report therefore stresses that energy projects financed by cohesion policy funds should primarily support the objectives of cohesion policy, namely to build regional development, increase employment and reduce disparities between regions in europe. european energy projects can help to boost the dynamics of those regions which are underdeveloped, lagging behind and those which want to invest in decentralised energy sources. the report stresses that the key objective of this common energy and regional policy should be to invest in decentralised energy sources on the one hand and in energy efficiency on the other. and the development of energy infrastructure is very important, because we often think and talk about the development of energy sources, but we don't think about how to transmit this energy, how to build connections, how to get it to the consumer. the report therefore also emphasises the development of energy infrastructure financed by cohesion funds. however, it is necessary to take into account the specific needs of the different regions in europe, as there is no one model that would be used by all regions. some regions want to invest in building renovation, put more emphasis on energy efficiency, others again lack basic transmission networks so we need different types of projects, and what will unite them is that they are european objectives, that they will implement european policy. and it is because the regions are so different, with such different levels of development, that the report emphasises the important role of regional authorities in the discussion of this issue. especially when negotiating agreements between the european commission and the member states, the regions must be able to choose the projects in which they want to invest, because it is the regions that will best assess how to invest, what to invest in, so that this money is not wasted, as we often hear. so it's not just about spending money, it's about spending it in an efficient and beneficial way. if a region has already renovated all its schools and the european commission and the member states are allocating funds for this purpose, the aim is not to lose the money and not to punish the region for having already achieved certain objectives. in the future financial perspective, there will be much more money for energy projects, but cohesion policy cannot be seen as a piggy bank from which money will be taken for the objectives to be achieved. cohesion policy cannot be seen as a substitute for proper funding. we must stress that this policy must exist, must pursue its objectives and can interact with other policies, but cannot replace their funding.
madam president! cohesion policy is the most important instrument for reducing regional disparities and promoting harmonious development throughout the european union. cohesion policy is our hope for overcoming the recession that has hit the old continent. it is therefore essential that it be sufficiently flexible, as this is the only way to take account of regional and territorial differences, and that the amount of cohesion funding in the new financial perspective be high enough to achieve the objectives pursued. as the co-rapporteur of the report by derek vaughan, i have repeatedly pointed out that in order to encourage the regions to use european funds and to enable them to implement them effectively, the procedures and administrative burdens involved need to be simplified and reduced. the rules must be clear and transparent to maximise the use of the funds. it is also very important to involve citizens more and encourage them to benefit from eu funds, inter alia by promoting community-led local development as a tool to stimulate growth, which is an opportunity to unlock the potential of civil society and local communities. i believe that now is a good time to discuss and take action to enable local cooperation mechanisms to be activated to create stability, jobs and better living conditions in their immediate environment, following the motto of the irish presidency which is 'providing stability and security leading to economic growth and increased employment in europe'. each country, region and area of the european union, both urban and rural, has unique characteristics and assets that make it competitive. we therefore need to make decisions to ensure that this potential is well exploited and that the strengths of each area of the european union are highlighted in a way that targets growth, boosts innovation and maximises the flow of knowledge and good practice between regions and countries, thereby maximising the use of eu funds.
as s&ds, we would like to draw attention to a few basic issues. first, we want to put particular emphasis on combating poverty, including energy poverty, as part of cohesion policy. the application of concrete measures from cohesion policy resources should translate into equal access for european union citizens to energy in their homes and workplaces, of course at favourable prices. secondly, we are committed to not giving up on ambitious climate policy goals. in the european union, and especially in its least developed regions, we still need new solutions based primarily on renewable sources, which are the future of energy and the basis of european competitiveness. at the same time, energy efficiency should be pursued, but the two objectives cannot be set against each other. finally, thirdly, we try to make cohesion policy as inclusive as possible and to offer a range of solutions tailored to the individual conditions and needs of each region. we support small, local power generation, but we don't want to limit funding for large power plants that produce energy from renewable sources. they are also very necessary. we also do not want to close the door on energy sources such as gas or biogas, which can and do meet local needs in the poorest regions, including rural areas. we therefore believe that cohesion policy in its energy dimension should be a package of solutions open to european diversity.
many rapporteurs and many forewords agree that cohesion policy has a positive impact on economic growth. the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework should therefore reject the proposal to cut these categories of the european budget. i also believe that the drastic cuts in national budgets are putting economic growth in doubt. i am also concerned about the way in which european funds are allocated: if we accept the logic of the european commission, then in the future funding period in the less developed areas of the union, half of the resources of the european regional development fund will be allocated to supporting the so-called climate logic, that is, the very costly for citizens and businesses transition to a low-carbon economy. from the perspective of countries that rely on fossil fuels, it is difficult to agree to direct subsidies only to renewable energy sources. regions should focus on those energy sources that best suit their local conditions. in the case of poland, this could include shale gas as a cleaner fuel than coal. if the climate policy promoted is not stopped, it could have devastating effects on central europe: rising energy prices, industrial closures and the creation of energy poverty areas. i therefore support the proposal to include these risks in the planned future cohesion policy. as regards the european solidarity fund, however, the rapporteur can only be supported in her calls for the extension and rationalisation of this financial instrument, which, as the author emphasises, is one of the few tools available to the european union to show solidarity with local communities. i also agree with mr van daalen that the measures should be directed first and foremost at the weakest.
mr. chairman, please! the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. the energy security of the member states depends on it. two-pronged action is therefore necessary. firstly, an effective and coordinated policy towards the countries from which we import energy, with the aim of eliminating the price differences applied to individual customers. second, to take all measures to initiate investments in indigenous energy sources through the development of relevant sectors of the economy. we have abundant shale gas resources, the exploitation of which can translate into lower energy costs and safeguard the interests of the community as a whole. the implementation of energy policy requires support for regional energy projects. this also implies the need to finance those regions where the crisis has caused difficulties in the energy economy. close cooperation in the energy field with partner countries, especially those directly neighbouring the regions of the union, is also of major importance. i would remind you that poland already achieved the required 9.5% share of energy from renewable sources two years ago, and their development remains one of the main directions of the country's energy policy. no less important branch of the polish economy is export... (the president cut off the speaker)
the rapporteur. - we have talked a lot about cities that are to develop and are to be the engine, the impetus for the development of the region. however, this is often not the case and agricultural regions have great difficulty in attracting new investment, so the money that will go to energy development under cohesion policy will be of great importance. here, mr nilssen told us how the development of his region in the north of sweden was due to decentralised energy sources. i represent the lublin region, an agricultural region on the border of the european union, the eastern border, and there, right now, everyone is preparing for these new opportunities that will be given to them. and they want to invest in different types of energy sources. renewable energy sources, but not only, because let's not forget that gas - natural gas or shale gas - is needed, among other things, for the development of green energy sources. cogeneration is of the utmost importance right now. so we're all looking forward to the opportunities that will arise, but the more i think, we can't just think about the money that will be allocated to the region. we also have to think of this money as being tied to the vision and strategy of development of the individual regions. the regions must have their own concept, because it is not just a matter of spending and investing in individual sources of energy. you have to know how it all works: what the region is supposed to be, what it wants to be, what it sees as the impetus for its development and what the effects of all this are supposed to be. because it's very easy to spend money, but it has to be spent efficiently.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. today, the main speakers are the members of the legal affairs committee of this parliament, because that is the way we talk about serious legal matters and that is the way we should approach the proposals put forward by luigi berlinguer in his excellent report. i agree with everything that was said in this room during this debate (except for the last vote of dimitr stoyanov, with which i do not agree at all, but it is like a separate part of the discussion). i cannot agree with what you are proposing, commissioner, that the commission will now carry out an impact assessment, a cost assessment, whether it will be good or bad, that there are different kinds of codes of good practice, that there are some kinds of administrative procedures. it's all true, only you and i have experience of totalitarianism. we know very well how a badly functioning administration, which gives itself the maximum of powers, while treating the citizen as something completely out of place as an unnecessary being, can ruin a person's life. the qualitative change that has taken place in our countries is, among other things, that these practices have been changed. what you are talking about is of course the functioning of the institutions of the european union, but these institutions have a different function in relation to the citizen today. very often these relations become direct, and therefore the citizen must have ease of operation, clarity of operation, transparent and good administrative procedures. to do that, we need the changes that the team under luigi berlinguer has been working on for so long. and that is why the legal affairs committee unanimously adopted this draft report, and that is why we are submitting proposals to the european commission to ask it to come forward with a legislative proposal as soon as possible. what evelyn regner mentioned is the year of the citizen. we need to give citizens a better administration, a more efficient, a more transparent administration, not to be understood as something very confusing, as something that no one needs at all. we want the union to work better for its citizens, but also for those who work in it. so as an international organization, we have an obligation to make sure that these procedures are clean, clear and good for all of us.
mr. chairman, please! the european union has considerable powers to influence the situation of natural and legal persons. the decisions taken by its institutions have consequences not only for the conditions under which businesses operate, but also for the lives of ordinary people. it is therefore essential to ensure a transparent and customer-friendly administrative procedure. the code of good administrative behaviour adopted over a decade ago has shown that it is possible to agree on a common set of rules for all administrative law traditions. however, we must remember that, contrary to what the rapporteur believes, the proposed regulation will not merely regulate the functioning of the european union's institutions. experience with the integration process suggests that we can speak of the so-called europeanisation of administrative law. certain standards are gradually becoming common to all member states and this regulation will have a major impact on the way public administrations in the member states function and may influence the case law of administrative courts. for this reason, the proposed regulation must be very carefully prepared and thought out, and it will be the european parliament that will have the greatest responsibility for safeguarding the interests of citizens, even at the expense of the convenience of the eu bureaucracy. i fully support the view expressed by my colleague, tadeusz zwiefka.
mr. chairman, please! youth unemployment has reached a critical level. in spain and greece, it exceeded 50% and reached a ceiling of 22% for the union as a whole. this situation requires intervention by national governments to prevent social disaster, loss of economic productivity, and loss of a generation of young people. some member states have already proposed a number of actions to engage young people. however, it is important that the actions taken are integrated and targeted not only at those who are currently finishing or have just finished their education and are unemployed, but also at those who may potentially be in this group a few years after finishing their education. first of all, effective cooperation between all actors with an impact on the formulation and implementation of labour market policy within the partnership should be ensured. in addition, it should be borne in mind that improving the links between education systems and labour market needs and improving access to lifelong learning should be the guiding principles of the actions undertaken. it's the only way to really help these people.
in brussels next week, a meeting of the parliamentary cooperation committee will take place between the european parliament's delegation for relations with russia and our colleagues from the state duma, the russian duma. together with my colleagues from the epp, krzysztof lisek and sławomir nitras, i have proposed that a joint document, which will conclude our discussions, should include a passage that will demand the return as soon as possible of the wreckage of the tu-154 plane, in which 96 people were killed almost three years ago, with the country's president at the head. it's unacceptable that for three years this plane has not returned to poland. we hope that this proposal will be supported by all the political groups, by all the members of this delegation from the european parliament, but also by our russian colleagues. it would be a very good gesture, and it would allow for better cooperation.
mr. chairman, please! recently, there has been a growing number of reports of job losses and the relocation of some of these jobs outside the european union. this is particularly the case for companies cooperating in the automotive sector. in poland, for example, the latest decision is the elimination of about 1,500 jobs by fiat and their transfer to italy. but at least those places remain in the union. in contrast, a number of automotive cooperatives are stopping production in countries such as poland. for example, in my constituency there are about 3.5 thousand jobs producing cable bundles for the automotive industry, among other things, using highly advanced technology. all of this is causing production to be phased out, moved outside the european union, thus increasing unemployment in the european union. the european commission must act to stop this process.
mr. chairman, please! well, the european citizens' initiative is about to start collecting signatures to re-ignite the debate on the climate package in the european union, and to this end, the initiators intend to collect over a million signatures from european union citizens in a number of countries of our community. there is no doubt that the climate package, in view of the growing economic crisis in the european union, and in particular in the euro area, is an initiative with far-reaching social and economic consequences. europe is already losing out to more dynamic economies like china, not to mention the united states. and unfortunately, that competition will leave the european union and all its countries even further behind if we do things that are irrational from the point of view of the essence of competition in global markets, if we do not take into account the competitiveness of our economy, and that competitiveness is being reduced by the additional costs that the climate package imposes on us.
blue-card question. – i have a question for you, mr eppink. do you think, at the end of the cyprus presidency when we all agree that cyprus has made significant progress, that the best way to address the president of that country is in a language that is not an eu language, in a foreign language which you did not check whether he knew? as you know, many people who were once communists develop into real democrats and real europeans, as we can witness in this very chamber. do you think that the best method is to be extremely impolite and aggressive towards those who come to engage in dialogue and cooperation with us?
madam president, mr. president, mr. president, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, i have to tell you, we have already heard many good words about the cypriot presidency today and i will not repeat those compliments, although i would very much like to do so, because i have had very good experience of working with the presidency. and i won't go into how difficult it was for the european union as a whole. we all know the problems that cyprus is facing. i will not dwell on that, but i would like to say that today we must find concrete solutions, bring europeans together by showing them what the union really is for, how it makes their lives easier every day through concrete, small steps. and in taking these concrete steps, the cypriot presidency has done very well, as my own experience shows. the patent has been mentioned several times. it has been 30 years, and we cannot, of course, ignore the work of the european commission and previous presidencies in solving this problem. but if we talk about the european union today, where there is high unemployment, especially among young people (11% unemployment in the european union, over 22% youth unemployment, and in some countries even 50% unemployment), it is precisely these concrete works on the single market (single market, where small and medium-sized enterprises are about 85% of jobs), these advances that the cypriot presidency has made on the single market, concessions, vocational qualifications, out-of-court dispute resolution that we worked on together, also out-of-court dispute resolution in online trade, which gives for every lost job in the traditional economy 2.5% of jobs in the online economy. this is the merit of the cypriot presidency. so i want to congratulate and thank her and all the people i've worked with for their commitment and competence. i'll have good memories. thank you!
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i think we would all agree – as was very well testified to in this debate – that 2012 was one of the most difficult years in european union history. we can all remember how we started last year. this room was full of doom scenarios and very difficult predictions for the fate of the european union. despite the fact – as so well described by president christofias – that sometimes it takes us too long to get decisions taken at a top political level to be implemented on the ground – the so-called implementation gap – i think the european union, thanks to both presidencies of last year, achieved a lot. this really helps us to focus this year on consolidation and on maintaining the sustainability of the decisions we took last year. i also think that it is very clear from this debate that our top priority must be a clear focus on growth and jobs. we need to work on keeping our public finances in order because this helps us to restore confidence, both in the european union and in the eu decision-making process. this will bring us back investment and the increased competitiveness of our economy. i think that, in the last days of last year and the first days of this year, we have already seen positive signs in the different economic indexes, the situation on the financial markets and the lowering of spreads, but it is quite clear that we are not there yet. we cannot be complacent about the current situation and we still have to work very hard to make this achievement consolidated and solid. therefore, i strongly support all those who are calling for the completion of very important legislative work on the two-pack. we have to work hard to complete banking union, which would finally restore confidence in our financial industry. and we have to work very hard on the tax evasion package, because we are losing billions of euros in the european union every year in this way. several of you referred to the troika and technocrats. here again, i would just remind you that the decisions are very much framed by the discussions and the decisions of the euro group. on behalf of the commission, i would like to assure you that the commission always advocates and calls for a comprehensive approach. yes, we need to have order in public finances, but we would never advocate austerity solutions alone. we are advocating important and necessary structural reforms and targeted, well-oriented investment. unfortunately, here i have to say that sometimes there are differing positions or opinions among some of the member states. this was clearly shown in several interventions this morning relating to the discussion on the multiannual financial framework. i have to say that, listening to the further calls for additional cuts, these would make the proposal on the mff very difficult, because the overall cuts, including the cuts for administrations, which are very often advocated in such a proportion that it would make them unrealistic, would lead us in a direction where the savings made would be small, but the structural damage to long-term goals and the overall project of the european union would be very harmful and long-lasting. we have to resist those calls and work very hard for a meaningful compromise for the future of the european union and of our economies and our citizens. to conclude, i would like thank president christofias and his eu team very much for the fair and open manner in which they conducted the eu presidency. a long list of achievements has already been mentioned. some took us decades to complete, like the eu patent. some are of a really groundbreaking nature, like the decision on the single supervisory mechanism. i do not think that those achievements would have been possible without a very professional team headed by minister mavroyiannis and ambassador korneliou, who did a great job, in council, coreper and his frequent contacts with the european parliament. therefore, i would like to thank cyprus for a great job done. the presidency deserves a lot of credit for all its achievements. thank you very much for the excellent cooperation.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the madam president, i warmly thank the commission representatives, the political group leaders and many other speakers who have praised the way in which cyprus has held its first six-month presidency of the european council. we appreciate your kind words. we have acted in good faith, we have acted as europeans, in an attempt to tackle the enormous problems facing the union today, economically, politically, socially. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, there is no 'dirty money laundering' in cyprus. how can we put this in a way that makes sense? and stop some people from sacrificing my country to their own domestic political expediencies. i say this with all sincerity, because we are victims of the internal conflicts of several large countries. this must end, you must respect a small country, which suffers from occupation. the next thing i want to say to my friend is that some people must finally be free of the syndrome of communism, because i have been dealing with this prejudice since the day i set foot in this parliament. i expressed my respect, yes, i said i'm proud because i'm a communist and i continue to be proud and i will be until the end of my life. because i believe that the mistake is not this ideology, the mistake is the way some people have put this ideology into practice. in any case, do we have freedom of expression in the european union at last, or do we not? i feel free to believe what i want to believe as the best, and i repeat some people need to be rid of this syndrome. i have experienced this many times during these five years, both in the council and in many consultations. but at the same time i have also recorded the full respect of the heads of the union's institutions, because these people recognise that i work hard for the good of the union, without thinking too much about micro-politics or any ideological distortions. so i ask you to respect each other and, since you spoke to me in russian, how do you know russian? i can answer you in this way. do you have any connections? i personally have no desire to "fall" to a low level. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not undermined. i want to maintain a high standard, as the representatives of the parties in the european union deserve. that's all i wanted to say. i would also like to thank very warmly the european parliament and the commission for their cooperation and herman van rompuy and finally all my friends who stood by me as true cypriots who fought for the honour of their country, to prove that even a small country can make a good presidency. we may be a small country, but we as a people have our dignity. and that dignity, if you will, is what we have defended these last six months, as we have defended it for the last 50 years of the republic of cyprus' existence in very adverse circumstances. we are fighting for the honour of our people, we are fighting for the greek cypriots, but also for the turkish cypriots. because our turkish cypriot compatriots are also suffering under the burden of the turkish occupation and do not want to lose their cypriot identity, and for this reason they address the republic of cyprus and the president of the republic of cyprus as a friend and a competitor and do not think that he is a communist and that is a disgrace. in any case, i am cypriot and i am proud of my cypriot identity, i am european and i am proud of that too. i am working for a better cyprus and i am working for a better, more just, socially and politically, europe. i wish you a good job for the benefit of the european union and the european peoples.
in writing. – cyprus took over its first presidency of the european council in the second half of last year under very difficult economic conditions, particularly in the eurozone. today, as we are reviewing the achievements of the presidency, we congratulate them on a great deal done in certain areas. such include: the future cohesion policy, the agreement to establish a single supervisory mechanism (ssm) for the oversight of credit institutions, and other agreements reached with the european parliament on a number of legislative proposals. furthermore, the presidency should be applauded for concluding the negotiations on the european unitary patent, negotiations which were ongoing for the last 30 years. while the presidency was not successful reaching an agreement on the next mff 2014-2020, it was able to negotiate and deliver an important compromise on the eu’s budget for 2013. even though the country has faced domestic economic troubles during its presidency, cyprus showed a great deal of professionalism and dedication in delivering important work for the benefit of all european citizens. it has succeeded in most of its goals and smoothly handed over the presidency torch to ireland. in conclusion, despite being a small eu country, cyprus has achieved a big eu presidency.
in writing. cyprus faced a huge challenge when it took over the council presidency for the first time in the past six months. we must not forget that this small island, thousands of kilometres from the centre of europe, has assumed many administrative and political responsibilities. the small number of officials and diplomats and the increasing economic problems made few believe in its success. today, however, we can say that nicosia succeeded. the cypriot politicians and officials have carried out their duties to the best of their ability. in particular, they have been effective in conducting the preliminary negotiations on the next multiannual financial framework and have tried to reach a compromise between member states on this issue. it must be made clear that the lack of agreement on the next seven-year budget is not due to nicosia's negligence, but rather to the enormous divisions within the union. i personally did not see the pro-social element in the cyprus presidency that president dimitris christofias had promised in his speech to the european parliament. it is increasingly clear that the recovery efforts aimed at restoring the european economy are in practice leading to increased unemployment and social inequalities. one could expect more from the only state in the union ruled by a representative of the communist party. it cannot be ruled out that a more active stance by the cypriot presidency would save countries in budgetary difficulties from continuing the wrong policy.
in writing. − cities are becoming centres of economic development, so maintaining their dynamism is becoming an important factor in ensuring economic growth in the eu. this is why it is so important to maintain a further increase in cohesion policy and regional development funding. it is these funds, invested in transport, broadband and the construction of new research and business hubs, that can help cities and be a strong support for the return of europe as a whole to growth. that is why i supported the report. the poor and marginalised regions and regions affected by structural poverty, such as the failure of a major, or sometimes only, industrial plant, are particularly poorly covered.
in writing. - 80% of europeans now live in urban areas and this figure is increasing. in addition, the outflow of people from rural areas to cities is also being exacerbated by the impact of the crisis, which is more difficult to 'survive' outside urban areas. cities today form extensive archipelagos which, if they are to radiate properly to other areas, must be developed in a responsible, sustainable way. one of the fundamental problems is to define the right strategy for not disrupting the functioning of the urban fabric. the migration of people from old neighbourhoods to new areas on the outskirts of cities is a cause for concern. this process often leads to the desertification of central urban areas. therefore, policies aimed at recalling the historical and symbolic value of abandoned neighbourhoods, combined with reforming housing policies, are effective in blocking worrying trends. tomorrow's problems must be thought of today. the development of new european legislation, which takes account of the achievement of medium and long-term objectives, is therefore timely. prompt support for such projects will help avoid a situation where the escalation of problems leads to the creation of much more serious challenges.
in writing. − local development is a key part of our cohesion policy since it is the level closest to the eu’s citizens. it is also at this level that the challenges we face are extremely demanding. citizens feel more attached at the local level and there exist certain intangible assets, such as historical and cultural ties and links. there are many issues that need to be addressed: energy efficiency in buildings, disposal management, migration, population ageing, etc. new approaches to urban policies are something that the eu must seriously consider. more than two thirds of the european population live in urban areas. promoting urban regeneration (the creation of wealth and opportunities) should be one of the main challenges the european union must respond to. this includes reinforcing the bond between cities and development and between urban centres and the surrounding territory. for this reason, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - a coherent policy for urban areas is a priority at the moment, as the majority of the union's population lives in cities. at the same time, the local dimension is important in this policy, as it is at this level that citizens feel more connected to the environment in which they live. the rapporteur stressed the need for local development, but also noted that, given the nature of the issue, it should be multi-faceted and cover a range of issues, as only then could it make a real contribution to economic growth.
in writing. - as you know, the world economy is slowing down. the european union is also increasingly hearing about the serious economic and financial crises in individual member countries. the standard example of a bad situation is greece, which avoided bankruptcy only because the community agreed to provide financial assistance. the draft resolution on urban development as a contribution to economic growth tells us that two thirds of the union's population live in cities. therefore, it seems to be entirely justified to promote urban centres in the fight against the economic crisis. such areas are much easier to run than the outskirts, mainly because the urban areas or areas close to them are in most cases suitably prepared for investment. i hope that the cohesion policy measures for these urban areas will at least partially fulfil their purpose, contributing to the improvement of the economic situation.
in writing. − cities are becoming centres of economic development, and maintaining their dynamism is becoming an important factor in ensuring economic growth among eu member states. this is why it is so important to maintain a further increase in cohesion policy and regional development funding. it is this money invested in transport, broadband and the construction of new research and business hubs that can support cities and be a strong support for the return of europe as a whole to growth. that is why i supported this interesting report, despite some shortcomings. the poor and marginalised regions and regions affected by structural poverty, such as the failure of a major, or sometimes only, industrial plant, are particularly poorly covered. i think it is worthwhile to supplement the document in question with the necessary records.
in writing. − i supported this own initiative report because it explores effective and efficient mechanisms to create synergies between the european funding programmes covered in the commission’s common strategic framework. i believe that integrating the delivery of funding programmes may improve the effectiveness of european funding at local and regional levels. it should also be emphasised that implementing strategies at local level should be the responsibility of local actors and authorities, with the aim of ensuring that economic and social needs are met at the level closest to the eu citizen.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr vaughan because i believe that the report he has prepared is a comprehensive and reliable document. the challenges facing europe today require efficient and effective instruments. i believe that the key issue is to reduce unemployment, especially among young people. i therefore support the proposal to clarify the rules for allocating funds to create new, sustainable jobs. i also agree with the call for improved conditions for start-ups. i believe that it is necessary to provide a flexible approach to the definition of regional and local development objectives, taking into account the specific needs and potential of each region. i believe that greater flexibility will simplify project preparation and implementation, and will help to move away from excessive bureaucracy and focus on results rather than procedures. like mr vaughan, i would like to stress the need to focus on the measurable effects of cohesion policy, to ensure the sustainability of investment and, therefore, the effectiveness of eu-funded interventions.
in writing. −this report focuses on finding effective and efficient mechanisms to create synergies between european funding programmes under the common strategic framework. personally, i support the instruments set out in the common provisions regulation (cpr) which aim to increase the size of cohesion policy, increase the focus on territorial cooperation and present a better coordinated approach at all levels of government. the changes proposed in the report address several issues such as the role of regional and local authorities in preparing, implementing and monitoring funding programmes, strengthening existing and promoting new urban-rural links, the need to better link territorial cooperation programmes with the 8 territorial strategies, the role of the joint action plan in integrating young people into the labour market, increasing the role of financial instruments in the future financial plan, integrating the common strategic framework with other eu instruments such as the horizon 2020 framework programme, life+ and the connecting europe facility. i and the s&ds believe that providing local authorities with more than one european funding programme will make project funding more efficient and easier to access.
in writing. − article 174 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union reads: 'in order to promote the harmonious development of the union as a whole, the union shall develop and pursue actions aimed at strengthening its economic, social and territorial cohesion.' the territorial cohesion referred to in that article is the result of the last treaty amendment, linked to the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. territorial cohesion requires greater involvement of local and regional authorities at every stage of planning, development and implementation of european programmes. the report by derek vaughan also makes a strong case for ensuring that member states, local and regional authorities can benefit from more than one european funding programme. its implementation should contribute to making european funds more efficient, simplifying them further and making it easier for potential beneficiaries to access funding. this is particularly important in the coming years, when cohesion policy will play a major role in the european union's crisis management policy. in these circumstances, cohesion policy funds must be used in an optimal way. europe cannot afford to waste or overspend. in view of these circumstances, i have decided to support the report by mr vaughan.
in writing. - cohesion policy is one of the most important objectives pursued by the european union. the main objective of this policy is to promote measures which lead to a level playing field in the social and economic conditions of all the member states of the community. particular emphasis shall be placed on reducing disparities at regional level and on eliminating the backwardness of the least favoured areas, including rural areas. the main instruments for implementing cohesion policy are the operational programmes in the form of grants to regions in the european union. in the current economic downturn, a cohesion policy for the financial perspective could be the panacea for the current crisis. however, the very important issue raised by the rapporteur is simplification and the use of a more results-oriented approach. providing beneficiaries with the possibility of benefiting from more than one european programme could also be an additional factor in improving the situation in individual regions. i believe that such actions will make a significant contribution to reducing economic and social disparities between regions in the period 2014-2020.
in writing. - cohesion policy is the european union's most important tool in dealing with the crisis. it is a pro-innovation, pro-social tool that strongly supports investment and economic development. it is therefore so important to continue and extend it, and these objectives can only be met by developing its funding in a new perspective for 2014-2020. the report voted on today is a very good reflection of the developmental nature of cohesion policy, especially in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. unfortunately, it does not cover all the barriers that prevent it from reaching its full potential. such a barrier is certainly the excessive limits on co-financing of investments from the budget of the member state or the investor. in the new perspective, this problem should be solved. this will allow more resources to be committed to developing production capacity and freeing up funds for much-needed investments in europe. increasing them is the most important way to achieve greater territorial cohesion and to overcome the inequalities that have plagued europe since the beginning of its post-war division into two zones.
in writing. − in its 10 years of operation, the solidarity fund has provided financial assistance to tackle the consequences of 49 natural disasters. it is therefore an important mechanism to support citizens in crisis situations. however, the number of applications for fund support has been steadily increasing in recent times. the reform aimed at simplifying and making the rules on eligibility more transparent, based on experience, should take into account the improvement of the effectiveness of the fund itself. of course, the proposals to reduce administrative procedures are noteworthy, and will greatly reduce the time needed to respond to a natural disaster. it should be noted that most of the applications submitted concerned disasters of regional scope, of which a significant number were rejected. it therefore seems important to clarify the rules for granting aid to individual regions, taking into account their level of prosperity. i support the report in the hope that it will improve the functioning of the fund.
in writing. − the eu solidarity fund, set up in 2002 to provide financial support to countries affected by major natural disasters, is an important instrument for helping member states in crisis situations. this fund deserves recognition. it is intended to show solidarity with the people living in regions affected by major disasters, and to provide concrete financial assistance and the necessary support in such difficult times, as was the case for example in the italian republic, which was hit by the earthquake in may 2012. however, the changing circumstances, including the financial crisis, and the analysis of the fund's past activities require some modifications, which is why i support the draft report by mrs rosas estaràs ferragut on the amendment of the current eu solidarity fund regulation. i hope that the proposed changes will help to improve its functioning and efficiency without generating additional costs, so that it will be an even better tool for assisting member states affected by major natural disasters.
in writing. − the european solidarity fund has repeatedly proved to be an excellent instrument for helping regions affected by natural disasters. in 2009, poland, the czech republic, and hungary were hit by floods that caused millions of dollars in damage. in 2010, the solidarity fund allocated over eur 100 million to help the affected regions. thanks to community funds and state budgetary support, poland has been able to develop its flood protection and early warning systems. in order to continue to operate actively, the fund must be guaranteed a stable funding.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs rosa estaras ferragut. i believe that the solidarity fund is an extremely important and well-received instrument of the european union, but it is necessary to improve its effectiveness. i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to improve administrative procedures and to introduce the possibility of making advance payments after the state has lodged an aid application. it is also necessary to clearly define the scope of the fund's activities, to define the term 'disaster' at regional level and to define the criteria for qualifying disasters, taking into account the difference between natural and man-made disasters. but above all, i agree with ms ferragut that focusing on disaster prevention is the cheapest way to reduce risk.
in writing. − the european solidarity fund, which represents the principle of solidarity under the lisbon treaty, is an instrument of great importance, not only because of the concrete financial benefits for regions affected by natural disasters. this instrument is a perfect example of the union's solidarity as an institution and a community with citizens in difficulty. as with all newly introduced union instruments, it is important to ensure that the fund functions properly and does not cause bureaucratic problems. in particular, in the face of unpredictable and changing problems, such as climate change, such as the scale and specificity of natural disasters, the instruments should be regularly monitored and improved. i therefore agree with the amendments proposed by the rapporteur. improving the efficiency, flexibility and efficiency of the fund by simplifying bureaucratic processes is essential, especially in cases requiring an immediate response. i agree with the idea of clarifying the definition and scope of the fund in order to improve the functioning of the fund. it is also a response to the current economic situation and the related concerns of many member states. the proposed reform will make the instrument more effective, allowing for more effective and faster assistance to citizens who are affected.
in writing. - the solidarity fund was set up to enable a rapid response to major natural disasters. it is also an example of european solidarity towards the people of the community affected by the aforementioned disasters. the creation of the fund was prompted by the floods that hit central europe in 2002. the main task of the solidarity fund is to repair damage that is not covered by insurance. so it's road infrastructure, water, sewerage, or telecommunications. the increasingly frequent and violent weather events show that the solidarity fund is urgently needed. as the rapporteur stressed, the solidarity fund is one of the european union's most valued instruments. i hope that in the future the fund will fulfil its tasks, at least to the same extent as in the past.
in writing. − the european solidarity fund has repeatedly proved to be an excellent instrument for helping regions affected by natural disasters. in 2009, after heavy rains, poland, the czech republic, and hungary were hit by floods that caused millions of dollars in damage. in 2010, the european parliament allocated over €100 million to help the affected regions. thanks to community funds and state budgetary support, poland has been able to develop its flood protection and early warning systems. to continue to operate actively, the fund must be guaranteed a steady source of funding, outside the uncertain eu budget, which will give it the certainty and stability to operate in any, often unpredictable, conditions. there should also be the possibility of accumulating contributions from subsequent years.
in writing. - more than two years after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the issue of good administration in article 298 is the only new article in the treaty on which the commission has not taken any action. the initiative to create a uniform administrative law applicable to the union's institutions and bodies was the subject of a special working group set up within the parliament's legal affairs committee on 23 march 2010. the focus was on administrative procedures and on creating a minimum safety net by providing guarantees for citizens and businesses in direct contact with the administration. this initiative was approved by the legal affairs committee in a working document on 21 november. now further steps are needed to ensure that this project is properly implemented, and i therefore call on the european commission to present binding legislative proposals in this area. i also agree that such legislation should be confined to the direct administration of the union and should apply as a lex generalis to all the union institutions and all areas of union activity. the introduction of practical, general rules of procedure will contribute to greater transparency and understanding of the law and to increased trust of citizens in the union administration.
in writing. − the conduct of the european administration is governed by a variety of codes of conduct and lex specialis, resulting in a lack of harmonisation of the basic standards which are applied in respect of good governance. as, more and more often, citizens and businesses are engaging directly with the european union’s administration in the course of their daily activities, the eu must find new solutions which would improve the legal certainty and clarity for the citizens and businesses concerned when they are dealing with the european administration in its many forms. this extends across a great number of sectors, and particularly applies in areas where european agencies have been given responsibilities covering industrial practices and thus businesses are directly impacted by their activities. i believe that the european administration should be held accountable according to the important principles of good governance and transparency, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − administrative procedure in the union is characterised by the principle of institutional and procedural autonomy, i.e. in the absence of a rule of community law, proceedings for claims arising from community law are governed by national law. this means that member states can determine the structure of the bodies themselves and decide on the procedural rules to be applied. to improve relations between citizens and administrations, the right to good administration, i.e. to an effective and independent administration, based on the principles of european legislation on administrative procedures, should be established. i hope that the establishment of the principles of good administration will create a minimum number of basic procedural rules that the administration should apply when dealing with cases. the creation of new rules should be based primarily on principles such as transparency and accountability, which will result in increased public trust in the administration.
in writing. − in the draft resolution voted on, the european union draws attention to the principle of non-discrimination and equal treatment of citizens from all eu countries. unfortunately, we have to remind you of that principle all the time. i have received many reports of discrimination because of my background or my christian faith. the need for better representation of states among officials should also be examined. many new eu countries are still underrepresented in the eu's administrative structures. it's not going to work properly. it is also worthwhile to elaborate on one of the points in the report voted on, concerning internal codes of conduct and administrative ethics.
in writing. − the economic crisis has revealed a number of problems not only directly related to economic or business issues, but also to the functioning of the internal market and to access to information for consumers, workers and, more broadly, citizens. this report is very important in the context of informing workers, which is why i voted in favour of it. restructuring and employee information in the area of business management are important elements of a well-functioning economy and of the single market and have a direct bearing on how to respond to economic disruption. workers are a fundamental factor in economic management, and businesses also play a huge role in a well-functioning economy. we must therefore provide them with the mechanisms to make european companies and smes competitive not only in the eu but also in the world. the response to the crisis should not be immediate layoffs. social dialogue will be important in this respect, in order to ensure that european companies and smes, while remaining competitive, can offer jobs. the key here is clear and accessible information. i supported the report because i believe that the european commission's initiative on this matter is necessary.
in writing. - this report is extremely important from the point of view of my political group, the socialists and democrats. it calls on the european commission to propose legislation that would ensure that minimum requirements are respected in the absence of collective agreements in restructuring processes. in addition, the commission proposal should involve all stakeholders, including the social partners and local and regional authorities, in the long-term planning of the company's situation. the restructuring problem is a european problem and therefore needs to be addressed at european level. unfortunately, national governments are not able to respond adequately to international restructuring processes.
in writing. − the dialogue with the social partners is one of the pillars of the european social model. deeply rooted in the treaty establishing the european community, it involves discussions, consultations, negotiations and joint action involving representative organisations of the social partners. workers and their representative institutions are important actors in this dialogue. it should be stressed that the european social model is by no means one of the causes of the current crisis. on the contrary, this departure from the principles of the european social model facilitated the outbreak of the crisis. and the return to the values and solutions typical of the european social model is the key to europe's exit from the crisis. the crisis is also a time for restructuring companies. it's important that this trial not be against the crew. in any case, the internal and external social costs of restructuring should also be minimised. dismissals should be the last resort. if they must be, it is highly desirable that they be preceded by the conclusion of collective agreements with the workers' representatives. the report by mr cercas takes a similar approach to socioeconomic relations. i therefore decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted for the report on company restructuring, information and management of employees for a number of reasons. it is fortunate that this matter has been favourably received by a large part of the european parliament. in a period of weak economic growth, we should create a law aimed at improving the economic situation. we need to build a stronger framework for business operations and a more stable future for workers. ensure that employees are informed of the changes, receive training, and are facilitated in their transition, and that dismissals are treated as a last resort. without such guarantees, workers' rights cannot be effectively protected. i support the solutions developed in the committee on employment and social affairs, because they will improve the situation of businesses and workers in the member states in a practical way. let us not forget that a well-executed restructuring is first and foremost about more competitive companies, a more secure market and more skilled workers. the creation of rigid rules restricting restructuring would have the opposite effect. let's remember that the process of change is the way to fight the crisis. let's do it flexibly, but responsibly.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the horn of africa is the region most at risk of famine in the world. the region's ongoing conflict and destabilization of its governance system are also directly linked to poverty and backwardness. in view of the increased activity of criminal and terrorist organisations, the risk of a threat to european countries must also be taken into account. in recent years, for example, somali pirates have been increasing their attacks. in supporting the resolution, i agree with the need to adopt a comprehensive strategy towards the countries of the horn of africa. it draws attention to the need to ensure security and stability in the region, in particular through the building of democratic political structures. it calls for european diplomacy to be used to resolve conflicts and eliminate threats to other states. support for poverty reduction and economic development and the promotion of cooperation between the countries of the region are also important. the activities of the special representative for the horn of africa are an important instrument of our work.
in writing. - looking back over the last 50 years of the horn of africa (eritrea, djibouti, ethiopia, kenya and somalia in a broad sense), it is clear that the region has come a long way to reach its present position. i therefore welcome the fact that the need for eu support for the region is not limited to a chaotic response to emerging challenges that impede sustainable development, but rather requires a strong, holistic and comprehensive approach. it is also encouraging that we share the view that temporary, short-term humanitarian aid - although in many cases invaluable - is not the answer to long-term problems, such as the introduction of sustainable development based on peaceful, transparent, publicly trusted governance. the long-term, deep-rooted problems of the region cannot be erased by a single, even the best, decision. there is a need for a comprehensive strategy for the region; therefore, a union approach that takes the issue in a broad context is the right direction to take in this area. only a stable region has the potential to attract foreign investment, to exploit its seaports more efficiently or to exploit the considerable agricultural potential of the region, which will ultimately make it possible to avoid the region's vicious circle of crisis situations in the most effective way.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i am glad that we have expressed our support for the full implementation of the eu strategic framework for the horn of africa based on supporting democracy, cooperation with and between the countries and organisations in the region, promoting economic growth and improving the security in the area. a key aspect of this is the fight against piracy. in this regard, operation atalanta is rightfully underlined. the eu still needs a more comprehensive approach toward the region, which would include a long-term development policy, humanitarian aid and the eradication of poverty.
in writing. − the european union's strategy for the horn of africa, namely somalia, sudan, south sudan, eritrea and ethiopia, is one of the external missions of the community. as you know, these are some of the poorest countries in the world. these countries are vulnerable to food insecurity, humanitarian crises and epidemiological crises. it is therefore important to ensure greater coherence in community action to improve the well-being of the local community. the appointment of the special representative for the horn of africa is welcomed. i hope that the assistance provided by the union will at least partially achieve its intended objectives and improve the situation in the countries mentioned.
in writing. − the horn of africa is a strategically important region located near important transport routes linking the northern and southern hemispheres. it has been torn by conflict for years and has become a place of instability. the rise of piracy and the activities of extremist islamic groups such as al shabaab are clear examples of this. i support the report by mr tannock. i think that nato's leading role could have been more strongly emphasised and the international community could have been called upon to play an active role in the area. as the rapporteur rightly noted, an important element in stabilising the region is the establishment of the first parliament in somalia in over two decades with president hassan sheikh mohammed. it's a good, solid report.
mr president, i should like to welcome the chancellor and thank him for his european commitment, but i expected more about the future architecture of europe from the chancellor of a country sandwiched between the eurozone and the non-eurozone central-eastern europe. i regret that the head of government of a eurozone country, the austrian chancellor, so geographically close to the new member states of the union, of mittel europa, which are mostly non-eurozone states, did not speak a word about the danger of a split and a two-speed europe and the threat of europe once again being divided. it should be a special concern for austria, a traditional advocate of central european states and the central european dimension of the european union. saving the eurozone should not happen at the cost of splitting the unit of union and creating a two-speed europe. a split eu is bad for austrian interests. i mention you started your speech speaking about net contributor countries. let me say that i do not like this term, because every net contributor country is a rich country and the rich country, by definition, is a net beneficiary of the single economic space of the whole, integral european union. eurozone reforms must not lead to the embedding in our constitutional system of formal institutional divisions between the eurozone and the rest. we must not allow the gravity towards the centre of the eurozone to become a centrifugal force pushing the other member states away from the centre towards the periphery. that is why many of us here in the parliament have consistently rejected any proposals for a formalised committee in the european parliament only for members from the eurozone countries, or a concept of a separate eurozone budget.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! the european union of today is not the fulfilment of the dreams of our predecessors. it is not an expression of the desire for european unity while preserving the independence of national parliaments. despite our huge population, strong economy and developed internal market, we are making worse and worse decisions in the face of the crisis. decisions that focus primarily on developing eu legislation at the expense of national states. with huge disparities in economic development, this is resulting in a fall in gdp and rising unemployment in most eu countries, at the expense of rising wealth and employment in several of the largest euro area leaders. moreover, a bill has recently been introduced to prevent national parliaments from deciding on the national debt. moreover, in the frenzy of eurofederalism, we are killing our industry: suffice it to mention the disastrous energy and climate package. in poland alone, its recordings are putting about 250,000 people directly involved in the industry out of work. to date, the european commission has not been able to determine how many companies will move production to the eastern border, where similar climate standards do not apply. is all this still a project that the citizens want? is the solution the idea of more europe put forward by the chancellor today? i'm worried about that.
in writing. since afghanistan and the planning of attacks in western europe and new york, we know how dangerous it is when terrorists have physical control of territory. they can train there and plan operations. since april 2012, islamist rebels have managed to take control of an area the size of france in northern mali. their recent actions indicate that they want to establish their own state in this area and turn it into a center of extremism. this is a worrying development, as it could threaten the stability of neighboring countries. two islamist groups, ansar dine and al-qaeda in the islamic maghreb, have threatened that the military support france has provided to the malian government will have consequences for the lives and safety of french hostages held by al-qaeda and french nationals in arab countries. now, there's been a ceasefire in mali, and as a result, we're looking at a huge swath of the country controlled by al-qaeda. france responded to this breach of the armistice with armed action. i support the council decision to send eutm mali a training mission to mali in february. this will allow the malian army to prepare for military action against islamist insurgents.
in writing. the ongoing crisis of confidence in financial markets has shown the extent to which countries' credit ratings affect the perception of their financial credibility. the european parliament today said that, given the significant implications for financial stability, there is a need for much better regulation of the activities of credit rating agencies, particularly in terms of the quality of credit ratings and the timing and frequency of their publication. credit rating agencies will now be required to provide a timetable for publication in advance, and the publication of credit ratings will be permitted only after markets are closed. increased restrictions on the quality of methodologies and the obligation to limit references to external ratings in community law should in future counteract the rapid and cascading reactions of financial institutions to changes in credit ratings by credit rating agencies. it is also worth noting that the package of regulations adopted today also introduces new quality in areas such as the civil liability of credit rating agencies towards investors, the reduction of conflicts of interest in the 'issuer pays' model, and the ownership structure of credit rating agencies.
madam president! paradoxically, the euro area crisis has also had a positive effect in that it has provided the impetus for improved economic coordination within the union and led to the emergence of new instruments to strengthen fiscal governance in the member states. the crisis has also made us painfully aware of the imperfections of the euro area. as a result, the council has drawn up a four-pillar plan for deepening economic and monetary union. one of these pillars is the common budgetary framework, which provides for the possibility of some form of debt commonalization. first of all, i would like to stress that the original intention behind the econ report by ms goulard was not to be a report on the issue of stability bonds, let alone on the introduction of such bonds. i expected the resolution to call on the european commission to carry out a feasibility study of this project without evaluation. this resolution does not introduce eurobonds, and we can already see the emotions it arouses. it's exciting because we don't know the scale and direction of the consequences of this solution. to know these consequences, or at least to try to estimate them, we need a well-thought-out and comprehensive report from the commission. it is not possible today, given our current state of knowledge, to say that the introduction of eurobonds is now crucial to the recovery of the euro area. today we only know that a common bond issuance system can be beneficial or harmful, depending on the assumptions made in its design. that is far too little to make the kind of strong judgments that the report makes. i personally think it would be worthwhile to know whether it is possible to create a system which simultaneously includes incentives to reduce debt and to introduce structural reform. i do not find any answers to these questions in mrs goulard's report, and at the same time, by its roadmap, it limits the commission's ability to provide answers in its feasibility study. by defining priority actions, the report limits the commission's flexibility and unjustifiably narrows the range of possible solutions under the concept of debt communalisation. i think that this approach does not allow us to build a stable political support for this concept, even in its most extreme form.
madam president, prime minister, please! for most poles, ireland evokes only positive associations. it is no wonder that during the previous irish presidency our country joined the european union, and since then thousands of poles have found their second home in your country, contributing with their work to the extraordinary economic development that ireland experienced before the outbreak of the global financial crisis. today we are debating the priorities for the next, and seventh, irish presidency of the council of the european union. stability, growth and new jobs, especially for young people, are well-chosen priorities, because they correspond to the concerns and expectations of europeans. however, with regard to your speech, mr prime minister, i would like to emphasize that these priorities will not be achieved, or even brought closer, without a positive conclusion to the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. you mentioned briefly in your speech that you hoped for a rapid agreement in the council on this matter, although it will probably be imperfect. we don't expect it to be perfect, prime minister. it is enough that it is good, but to be considered good, we can no longer accept cuts in investment, regional policy and social programmes. european solidarity cannot be the victim of an imperfect agreement. i am sure that you, mr prime minister, understand this very well as the prime minister of a country which has an impressive record of economic development, also thanks to the european cohesion policy. i am aware that the main burden of negotiating the mff rests with the permanent presidency of the council, but i would nevertheless urge you to do everything possible to ensure that the outcome is not only imperfect, but acceptable, but good or at least good enough. i wish you success in achieving both this objective and all the others you announced in your speech.
in writing. i listened to your speech with great interest. the irish presidency is taking over the presidency of the european union at a time that is certainly not easy. the continuing economic crisis and rising unemployment are posing increasing challenges to the union and the need for deeper integration is becoming more and more evident. i believe the irish presidency has adopted the right strategy. i believe it is very important to focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, as they have the greatest potential to create sustainable growth. i am pleased that the presidency is planning a number of actions for the sme sector, such as improving access to finance and promoting entrepreneurship. i have high hopes for the work on the cosme programme, which aims to increase the competitiveness of companies. i also think it is important to take action to remove administrative barriers for smes.
in writing. 2013 is the year of citizens. i am glad that the irish presidency will be focusing on citizens and their rights. as vice-president of the commission on human rights, i draw the presidency's attention to the key issues that need to be addressed in order to strengthen the human rights system in the union and in the world. the growing awareness of the relationship between human rights and business requires greater attention to be paid to corporate social responsibility. the urgent task is to promote responsible business practices to increase the competitiveness of enterprises, social satisfaction and environmental improvement. the eu's human rights policy must be consistently implemented in its external action. to be a credible partner on the international stage, the union must act consistently and in accordance with its obligations under the treaty and community legislation. we must eliminate the differences in standards between our foreign policy on human rights and other areas. i also ask that you pay particular attention to women's rights. the promotion of women's rights and gender equality and the fight against violence against women should form the basis of all relations with third countries with which the union has signed association and cooperation agreements. in this context, i call on the presidency to initiate an international debate on violence against women and gender-related human rights violations.
mr. chairman, please! after this vote, the next step before the rules come into force will of course be tripartite talks with the european commission and the council. unfortunately, due to a dispute over competence between the european parliament and the council, the entry into force of these provisions will be delayed. the institutional deadlock at issue here concerns the interpretation of article 46 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, namely the fixing and allocation of fishing opportunities. for years, the council has blocked the development of multiannual management plans for individual fish species, interpreting the rules in its own favour, i.e. believing that it has the exclusive right to set fishing opportunities. this situation has a very negative impact on the development of fisheries law, it worsen relations between institutions and it deserves to be explicitly condemned.
mr president, on monday the european court of auditors announced the results of an audit investigation into the way money on energy efficiency has been used in some member states. i want to stress that the commission must take this audit and the recommendations of my report into account when preparing the next programming period. we do not want cohesion funds for energy to be wasted. thank you very much for your support for the report. (applause)
in writing. − on 16 january, meps adopted a new revised calendar for 2013, returning to the practice of 12 plenary sessions of equal length to be held in strasbourg. i do not hide the fact that this is a failure of the strategy of establishing a single seat for the european parliament. the modification of the calendar was necessary following a ruling of the european court of justice of 13 december 2012 which annulled the amendments to the calendar of plenary sessions for 2012 and 2013 voted by parliament on 9 march 2011. the dispute concerned the establishment of two two-day sessions instead of four in october, which was to meet the requirements of holding 12 plenary sessions in strasbourg. this solution, which was considered to be in line with the procedure, was to allow for considerable savings, since the maintenance of the three separate establishments is estimated to cost up to eur 180 million. unfortunately, the french and luxembourg governments opposed the savings by bringing an action to annul our 2012 and 2013 work calendars before the court, which ruled that the 12 ordinary plenary sessions per month must be of the same length and reiterated that only member states have the right to change the seat of the institution. to change this absurd situation, we must continue to make a strong case and persuade the member states to make the necessary changes to the treaties to allow the european parliament to have a single seat.
in writing. − the existing dangerous goods directive regulates the classification, packaging and labelling of preparations consisting of two or more chemical substances. in particular, the distribution of hazardous materials requires precise rules and labelling to ensure that it is carried out in a proper manner and without endangering citizens and the environment. the adoption of the lisbon treaty has led to a number of provisions requiring updating and adaptation, including the issues covered in this report. the proposed changes are not political but are merely the result of commitments made by the states. i voted in favour of the resolution, hoping to strengthen the protection needed in the trade in chemicals.
in writing. − the rules on the packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations and substances are designed to protect health and the environment. the creation of such provisions was also intended to allow for a freer flow of such goods. however, the continuous change of the rules, including the treaties, has meant that the 2008 regulation needs to be amended. in addition, new legislation in this area will be compatible with the system comprising the un globally harmonised system.
in writing. − the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources is primarily about protecting individual fish species against 'predatory' fishing policies. it is also an opportunity to create long-term profitability in the fisheries sector. to ensure the harmonious development of the industry in europe, the european union has developed a series of rules governing access to community waters and, most importantly, the exploitation of resources and the reduction of fishing effort. of course, some communities may be opposed to the introduction of fishing restrictions because they say it could reduce their income. however, i hope that the changes adopted will contribute to improving the fisheries policy management system by better integrating fishermen and that the so-called ecosystem approach to fisheries will have a positive impact on the overall protection of the marine environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, which reflect the view that parliament should use this occasion to request the full alignment of this regulation to the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon. this applies to the provisions giving the council the power to take decisions which should (since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon) be adopted according to the ordinary legislative procedure. i share the view that leaving these references to the old consultation procedure intact would endanger the institutional achievements of the treaty of lisbon in the fisheries sector and create legal uncertainty, casting doubt on parliament's qualities as a legislator.
in writing. − the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources is primarily about protecting individual fish species against 'predatory' fishing policies. it is also an opportunity to create long-term profitability in the fisheries sector. to ensure the harmonious development of the industry in europe, the european union has developed a series of rules governing access to community waters and, most importantly, the exploitation of resources and the reduction of fishing effort. of course, some communities may be opposed to the introduction of fishing restrictions because they say it could reduce their income. however, i hope that the changes adopted will contribute to improving the fisheries policy management system by better integrating fishermen and that the so-called ecosystem approach to fisheries will have a positive impact on the overall protection of the marine environment.
in writing. − the cartagena protocol is the first international agreement to regulate the transboundary movement of genetically modified organisms. the main aim of the protocol is to regulate international trade and the handling and use of genetically modified organisms that could have adverse effects on human health. i hope that the conclusion of the nagoi/kuala lumpur additional protocol on liability and compensation will make a significant contribution to raising the level of safety for human health and to achieving the objectives of the said protocol and the convention on biological diversity.
in writing. − the cartagena protocol, which entered into force in 2003, is an additional agreement to the 1993 convention on biological diversity and provides a safety framework for the transport and use of living modified organisms (lmos). it provides for the provision of information to states to enable them to take an appropriate decision on the authorisation of the introduction of those organisms into their territory and provides for the establishment of a biosafety clearing-house. the nagoya supplementary protocol adopted in 2010 sets out the rules and procedures for liability for damage caused by living modified organisms. they indicate the appropriate course of action in the event of a threat to biodiversity and human health. in the european union, these regulations fall within the scope of directive 2004/35/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 2004, which applied the 'polluter pays' principle, according to which environmental damage is paid for by the entity that caused it. the precautionary principle, which is the main message of the cartagena protocol, remains the overriding principle of european biosafety legislation. i support the rapporteur's position and the council's decision to sign the nagoya/kuala lumpur supplementary protocol and hope that it will be ratified by all countries in a timely manner.
in writing. − the cartagena protocol is the first international agreement to regulate the transboundary movement of genetically modified organisms. the main aim of the protocol is to regulate international trade and the handling and use of genetically modified organisms that could have adverse effects on human health. i hope that the conclusion of the nagorno-karabakh additional protocol on liability and reparation will make a significant contribution to raising the level of safety for human health and to achieving the objectives of the said protocol and the convention on biological diversity.
mr. chairman, please! it is a fact that for the third time in the last two years the european parliament has stooped down and dealt with the activities of the credit rating agencies. this is not only a sign of the complexity of the problem, but also of the fact that we are not yet able to restore full credibility to these institutions. i emphasize the word credibility on purpose, because credit rating agencies should be and unfortunately they are not always institutions of trust. the regulation, in my view, is a regulation that is moving in the right direction. these are good guidelines, but i would like to point out that this regulation does not solve all the problems associated with the functioning of these agencies. still, it deserves our support.
in writing. − this is the third piece of eu legislation concerning credit rating agencies (cras) since the beginning of the economic crisis. cras are widely blamed for having erroneously giving good ratings for many us mortgage-backed securities. the activities of cras have a far-reaching impact of the behaviour of economic and financial players and on the life of public institutions. i share the opinion that their ratings should be treated as information to take into account and that the agencies themselves should not enjoy special status or automatically influence the activities of economic and financial operators and public institutions. i voted in favour of this report, but i would like to draw attention to the fact that the new sovereign ratings rules (that limit the number of times a cra may issue a rating to three times a year) which are meant to decrease volatility (as certain rating downgrades have caused turmoil in the markets) may actually increase volatility because they may necessitate more severe downgrades. this may also limit the freedom of cras to act on their best judgement as to when ratings should be modified. this is something that we must monitor closely.
in writing. − the financial crisis in europe has shown that the recommendations of credit rating agencies cannot always be relied upon. many financial institutions have taken these recommendations as guidelines in their decisions, and they have been proven wrong, and they have caused chaos in the market. this is a serious problem because it has not only disrupted the financial market, but it has also undermined the agency's credibility. i therefore agree with the assumption that the recommendations of credit rating agencies should be treated with much more caution and not as a self-evident oracle. the credit risk assessment of the credit rating agency should be verified by the entity and the entity should formulate its own credit risk assessment. no one should exempt economic operators from carrying out their own analyses and from taking responsibility for their own decisions. i support the draft directive of the european parliament and of the council, because it rightly emphasises this aspect of the decision-making process.
in writing. − cod is one of the most fished species in the baltic sea and is of great economic importance, making regulation of cod fishing a priority fisheries issue and a major political issue in the baltic states. the cod is equally valuable to the european union as a whole, with its fisheries accounting for almost 10% of the community's total catch over the last decade (70,000 tonnes, up from over 700,000 in 2004). that is why it is so important that we constantly monitor the state of cod in the baltic and that we keep the rules on fishing standards up to date. the proposal concerns the 2007 long-term plan for cod and cod fisheries and suggests amendments which aim, inter alia, to adapt the regulation to the current cod stocks, to adapt the catch limits to the recommendations in force in the relevant geographical areas or to adapt the legislative procedures to the current rules. it also introduces a regulation allowing small-scale coastal fishing during protection periods, which does not have a negative impact on spawning grounds, which will improve the economic situation of the fishing fleets in the member states.
in writing. − although this is an alignment report following the new comitology procedure set out in the lisbon treaty (delegated vs. implementing acts), the rapporteur decided to go beyond the scope of a simple alignment and introduced some changes that aim to make the cod management plan in the baltic more flexible and compatible with the most recent scientific recommendations. it is for this reason that the rapporteur proposes, among other, to increase temporarily the fishing mortality rate for baltic cod stocks. this and other modifications included in the report are justified in light of the commission's inability to come up with a new long-promised management plan for cod in the baltic sea. for this reason, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr jarosław wałęsa because i think it is a very good document, taking account of both the new legal situation introduced by the lisbon treaty and the increase in cod stocks in the baltic sea. i think it is beneficial to allow small-scale cod fishing also during the closed season, especially during the summer months. i believe that this is an important solution from the point of view of the local economy and that it can have a positive impact on the economic situation of many coastal enterprises, often small family businesses, thus contributing to the improvement of the living standards of local communities. i agree with the rapporteur on the amendment of the legislative procedure. the multiannual plans are the most important element of the regulation and should therefore be amended, if necessary, by the ordinary legislative procedure. in addition, the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries and the baltic sea regional advisory committee should be involved in the evaluation process of the multiannual plan. i also believe it is extremely important that any future changes be implemented in cooperation with the social and economic partners. i believe that the entry into force of the regulation, with the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, will contribute to improving the exploitation of cod resources, both economically, socially and environmentally.
in writing. - the vote on the report by mr walesa resulted in a change in the rules on cod fishing in the baltic sea. we have agreed to remove some of the restrictions on how and where fishermen can fish. this amendment will allow cod to be caught in coastal areas during the closed season in summer. in this way we have reached out to small-scale fishermen, which is particularly important from the point of view of polish coastal fishing. in addition, the outcome of the vote on this report suggests that future reforms will take greater account of the regional specificities of the european union's waters.
in writing. - i voted with the cor group for the report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and fisheries in the baltic sea. this is primarily an adjustment report imposed by the new comitology procedure laid down in the lisbon treaty (delegated acts vs. implementing acts). however, the rapporteur has decided to go beyond the scope of a simple adjustment and introduces several changes that aim to make the baltic cod management plan more flexible and compatible with the latest available scientific advice. the rapporteur therefore proposes, inter alia, to temporarily increase the fishing mortality for baltic cod stocks. these and other changes proposed by the rapporteur are justified in the light of the european commission's inability to come up with a new, long-promised, cod management plan for the baltic sea.
in writing. - the long-term ill-considered policy on cod fishing in the baltic has led to an unlikely decline in the number of this species. although the first catch limits were established at the end of the 20th century, the stocks of this species have not increased because the countries that benefit from the baltic have not complied with these rules. it was not until the middle of the first decade of the 21st century that things began to improve. it was then that the european union increased its control of cod fisheries significantly. in addition, an international fisheries inspectorate has been established. the temporary introduction of fishing has had the intended effect. i hope that the long-term plan for cod stocks in the baltic sea will lead to a sound fishing policy in the future.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the very good work that has resulted in the report being adopted today. the long-term plan for cod stocks in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks is of paramount importance from the perspective of my country. it is important to adapt the cod fishing plan to the changing environmental conditions. that plan should be updated in accordance with the latest available scientific research. this is important for the fisheries of all the baltic sea countries. the long-term plan for cod stocks in the baltic sea has already made a significant contribution to the recovery of the cod stock. its flexibility and improvement will bring many tangible benefits to all member states.
in writing. − the european union's fisheries policy began to be reformed at the beginning of the 21st century. the main objective was to lay the foundations for responsible fishing to safeguard the future of certain fish species from extinction. it should be added that the european community is trying to maintain a proper parity between the fishing effort of the fleet and the total fish stocks. the fair enforcement of the rules on fishing in the union is a very difficult task. it is worth remembering that in the last financial perspective, the european union allocated some eur 4 billion to the common fisheries policy to ensure the sustainable development of the sector. the technical measures designed to protect fish stocks appear to regulate this market and thus contribute to the balance of ecosystems in european marine waters.
in writing. - i supported the report by mr carlo casini on the order of precedence of the vice-presidents of the european parliament elected by acclamation. the proposed amendments would provide that, if the election is by acclamation, the order of precedence of the vice-presidents would be determined by secret ballot. i believe that the proposed amendments to the text of the rules of procedure of the european parliament clarify the way in which the vice-presidents are elected, which i hope will increase the transparency of the decisions taken on the appointment of these posts and also contribute to the more efficient work of the european parliament.
in writing. −unemployment is a serious problem, which is growing with the economic crisis. the unemployment of young people is particularly acute, creating enormous difficulties in entering the labour market. in poland, too, the percentage of youth unemployment is rising steadily. this is a dangerous phenomenon for the economy, as many highly educated graduates of various fields of higher education choose to work outside their own country. the need to tackle unemployment in this age group is not in dispute. however, i do not think that this is the commission's task, which should rather focus on creating conditions favourable to the creation of new jobs. the recommendations presented in the report are, however, only superficial. they do not reflect the situation in individual countries, but impose on them an obligation to guarantee jobs that do not exist. the lack of flexibility of the proposed duration of such a guarantee is also questionable. i voted to reject the report.
in writing. - i supported the european parliament's draft resolution on the youth guarantee because youth unemployment is a key and urgent challenge today. the fight against poverty should be the focus of determined efforts at the european union, national and regional levels. the need to take concrete action to reduce youth unemployment in the short term is extremely urgent. the fact is that the unemployment rate among young europeans has exceeded 22%, meaning that more than 5.5 million young people are out of work. many analyses, including the international labour organisation's september 2012 paper 'global employment outlook: an adverse outlook for youth', present labour market trends that are unfavourable to young people. the enormous difficulties young people face in finding work cause them to feel marginalised, deeply frustrated and without prospects for the future, and increase their risk of permanent social and occupational exclusion and poverty. i think that, beyond the guarantee fund, in the near future the eu should undertake a detailed and multi-faceted analysis of the functioning of the labour market and, consequently, develop a set of measures to deal with rising unemployment, especially among young people, not only in the short term but also in the long term.
in writing. - the economic crisis has had a profound impact on the labour market. the unemployment rate in the eu has risen dramatically, particularly among young people. according to the european commission, more than 5.6 million young people are out of work. in his state of the union address last autumn, european commission president barroso said that the commission would be preparing an action plan to tackle this huge problem. the commission's initiative on the youth guarantee scheme will be an important step towards minimising youth unemployment. that is why i supported the european parliament's resolution, because it supports the commission's action. increasing youth employment should be a priority for us. young people must not be deprived of the opportunity to gain practical experience. otherwise, their qualifications will become outdated, putting them in an even more difficult position on the labour market. it's not just the employment or the internship that's important. the conditions under which they are to be carried out should also be considered. in this resolution, the european parliament stressed that the recruitment of young people must be subject to certain conditions and that unpaid traineeships cannot replace an offer of employment. the youth guarantee does not provide jobs, but it is such an important aid to entering the labour market, and i fully support this.
in writing. - the youth guarantee is a priority for the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament, especially now, in times of economic crisis. this guarantee should apply to all persons resident in the european union who are under 25 years of age and who have been unemployed for more than four months, and to graduates under 30 years of age. at the same time, the guarantee is intended to ensure a good quality job offer, but also education and paid traineeships. this is particularly important when the youth unemployment rate in the eu is so high (23.7% in november 2012). the european union should finance this guarantee scheme so that the economic crisis does not deprive young people of the chance to start well into adult life.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! we are facing a huge challenge youth unemployment in the european union and the euro area is at record levels and statistics show that it will not fall until 2016. we have raised this issue many times in our debates, drawing attention to european statistics, eurostat surveys, reports by economists and politicians. now, a few years later, we see that the advanced economies and the european union have been hit hardest by the global economic crisis and its consequences. there is no doubt that the eu institutions are trying to reduce the problem of youth unemployment through a number of initiatives, such as the european investment plan, the relocation of eu funds, the european youth guarantee and various pilot projects. however, european youth organisations are continuously calling for these activities to be extended. i think we should be more active in supporting these activities, systematically reviewing them to make them effective and helpful for the young citizen. with the right political will and administrative support, not only at european but also at national level, there is scope for targeting effective and efficient support for youth employment. that is why i voted in favour of the draft resolution on the youth guarantee. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by ms lena kolarska-bobińska. it is important that eu policies are mutually consistent. european energy policy should therefore be coordinated with cohesion policy. one of the reasons for the weakening of the competitiveness of the european economy in the global context is the relatively high energy prices in europe. if we want to maintain our position in world markets, we must make our energy policy effective. it is not enough to call on other partners to follow our example in ambitious, noble and environmentally friendly plans for renewable energy. it is clear that there is no political or economic will to accept the solutions proposed by the european union. that's why we should be strengthening our energy capacity.
in writing. - i would like to support the report of the member of parliament kolarska-bobińska. it is much needed by countries concerned about their energy security and by all who care about a clean environment and its health. financing this area from cohesion policy will help to increase europe's energy security and to move towards independence from external sources. the report also focuses on the promotion of alternative and renewable energy sources. this will allow for the creation of many new businesses using innovative technologies and will help reduce unemployment. this is mainly about exploiting the potential of renewable energy in rural areas, which could make some areas almost self-sufficient in energy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the rapporteur has raised a number of important issues in it: i agree with the statement that it is important to link energy policy and cohesion policy. however, cohesion policy cannot be seen as a substitute fund for the financing of other commission programmes. the union should implement projects that stimulate growth, create jobs and reduce regional disparities. the rapporteur rightly emphasised that the specificity and diversity of the regions should be taken into account. regions should be able to choose the projects in which they invest and have a strong influence on the choice of energy projects so that they are consistent with their strategy.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! both cohesion and energy policies are of vital importance to the development of each of the eu's countries and regions. the eu's energy projects include better infrastructure, alternative energy sources, lower energy prices, the fight against energy poverty and new jobs for the people of the old continent. cohesion policy, on the other hand, is designed to reduce regional disparities and ensure economic growth in each member state. this is why it is so important that these two areas of the european strategy work well together and complement each other. each region should have a say in the choice of energy projects, so that they are as well integrated as possible into its development programme. here too, the importance of administrative simplification at local and regional level should be emphasised, in order to make the fullest and most efficient use of the funds allocated to these projects. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in wine and the common organization of the market in wine, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january 1993, is designed to ensure that the community's wine sector is not affected by the current crisis. that is why i voted in favour of the report by professor lena kolarska-bobińska. thank you very much. thank you.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted in favour of the report because it highlights three key points: the combination of energy policy and cohesion policy will stimulate growth, create jobs and reduce regional disparities. secondly, the report takes account of the specificity of the regions, their diversity. it stresses that not all are the same and must be able to choose the projects in which they invest. thirdly, in the eu countries, it is very important to finance energy infrastructure. it is not enough to build decentralized energy sources, but also to build the connections and the infrastructure that will deliver that energy to consumers.
in writing. − the idea of issuing eurobonds is gaining support in countries where public finances are at risk. countries such as france and germany, on the other hand, fear that the issuance of these bonds will increase the cost of servicing their debt. it seems that at this point, the issuance of european bonds could cause even more public debt to rise in europe. an additional factor against emissions is that countries like greece and spain will slow down their public finance reforms. therefore, the introduction of eurobonds is not a good solution at the moment.
in writing. − the possible introduction of stabilisation bonds in any form will be a landmark decision in the history of economic and monetary integration. thus, the discussion on the form, assumptions and potential action plan should be based on reliable data and objective simulations. in my opinion, the recommendations in the report by mrs goulard go too far. it is not possible today, given our current state of knowledge, to say that the introduction of eurobonds is crucial to the recovery of the euro area. all we know today is that a common bond issuance system can be either beneficial or harmful, depending on the design assumptions adopted. that's far too little to make a definite judgment. i expected the resolution to call on the european commission to develop a comprehensive feasibility study for this idea, without evaluation. by defining priority actions, the report limits the commission's flexibility and unjustifiably narrows the range of possible solutions within the concept of debt communalisation. i think that this approach does not allow us to build a stable political support for this concept, even in its least revolutionary form.
in writing. − eurobonds, or as some call them, stability bonds, are nothing more than securities in which the issuer (i.e. in this case a euro area country) states that it is the debtor of the bond. the issuer (i.e. the debtor) commits itself to the obligor to make a specific service in the future, namely to buy back the bonds in question. the idea of issuing eurobonds is now gaining more and more support, especially in countries where public finances are at risk. the so-called nordic countries (france and germany) are concerned that the issuance of these bonds will increase the cost of servicing their debt. it seems that at this point, the issuance of european bonds could create a debt that europe would not know how to get out of. an additional factor against emissions is that countries like greece and spain will slow down their public finance reforms. therefore, the introduction of eurobonds is not a good solution at the moment.
we have a very important agreement to make. this agreement can open up a political dialogue between the european union and iraq, and it can also increase trade. i think we should remember that iraq has had a very bumpy, very difficult history, most recently, its last chords were two military interventions in which some european countries participated. that's also why we should be opening the door to iraq today. the strengthening of trade, the strengthening of political dialogue will certainly serve the stabilization of this country well, and without the stabilization of this country it is difficult to imagine the stabilization of the entire region, which today is not peaceful. that is why i am very grateful to the rapporteur that he was able to speak in such strong words about respecting the rights of religious minorities, including christians who have been there for 2,000 years, that in such strong words he was able to speak about protecting religious freedom. yes, without respect for religious freedom in this region, no lasting foundation for peace can be imagined, and this issue should be permanently on the agenda of our annual political summits.
mr president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. until recently, ten years ago, we talked about iraq as a frontline area and we listened to reports of, you could say, warfare from the intervention, in which some of the european union countries also participated. we remember how big that was. my country, poland, also participated militarily in this intervention, in this intervention of international forces led by the united states, but there were countries that had a different opinion. it's less emotional now, but the difference of opinion is still there. fortunately, today we are not talking about sending troops to iraq, we are talking about a partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of iraq. this is a very important case for many reasons. still for security reasons in the region. in view of the dramatic situation in syria, we would very much like to see peace and tranquility in iraq and to be able to count on the reduction of these internal tensions - the tension between shiites and sunnis, the tension concerning kurdistan - and to be able to combat the activities of the iraqi branch of al-qaeda, which is still active. so these challenges are there, but beyond security, of course we have to think about the future in terms of economic cooperation and political cooperation, as many speakers have said. iraq is at the beginning of the road to building a normal, stable, democratic state and of course the european union and its institutions, as well as the member states, should help in this, should work towards the democratization and modernization of iraq.
mr. chairman, please! we are debating today an important agreement, a cooperation agreement with iraq, the provisions of which, if strictly adhered to, i believe will accelerate the development of that country and lead to a calming of the situation in the region. but it is impossible to talk about iraq today without mentioning at least three issues that are determining the development of the situation in that country and the political situation in that region. first of all, when it comes to the pervasive corruption in iraq, i think iraq is breaking all records. this is something that absolutely must be the subject of strong pressure from the european union in the future to change this situation. secondly, the situation of christians - many thousands of christians, hundreds of christians expelled from their homes, thrown out, murdered, raped - is something that must also be the subject of assertive, good foundation of european diplomacy in the future in relation to iraq to raise this issue. and finally, the third issue is the question of the iraqi government's questionable actions in the context of aiding the syrian regime, in the context of cooperation with iran. these are the three things that will require a strong attitude of the eu diplomacy, the european union, to change in the future also in relations with iraq and to help iraq to solve these situations and these issues.
mr. chairman, please! iraq, like the whole of the arabian peninsula, is of vital importance to the strategic and geopolitical interests of the european union. the process of democratization in iraq, as well as the westernization of the country, requires support. in this respect, the union's partnership and cooperation agreement with iraq deserves the highest praise. but there is one big problem: human rights. cooperation, partnership and trade cannot be traded for human rights violations. it is a mocking and ominous paradox that 250,000 christians in iraq were relatively more at ease under the totalitarian and criminal regime of saddam hussein than they are today. now we see the entry of aggressive islam, which results in murder, rape and persecution not only in syria and mali, but also in iraq. the iraqi authorities must be asked to guarantee in the constitution, in the laws, but above all in daily practice, the respect of human rights for all christians in iraq.
in paragraph 14 of the resolution on the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement, parliament draws attention to the continuing violence in iraq against religious communities, including christian minorities. it is good that this is the case, but we must ensure that it is, and i would also appeal to the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy to take this matter very seriously when dealing with the iraqi authorities. the christian-rooted european union cannot be satisfied that its new partner iraq is ranked fourth in the world in the index of persecution of christians published by the international organisation open doors. the organization warns that anti-christian tendencies are on the rise there. for years, we have seen not only attacks on christian churches but also murders, kidnappings and other forms of violence against christians. a few years ago, there were 1.2 million christians in iraq, and because of the persecution, most of them had to leave the country, and only a quarter of them remained. i would hope that today's resolution will be an instrument of real action to protect the christians in iraq.
mr. chairman, please! iraq is a major exporter of fuel, which directly translates into its position in the international energy market. strengthening bilateral relations, especially in the wake of the recent war, is the cornerstone of a policy based on peace and security. it is in the interest of all of us. it is worth noting that the agreement contains clauses requiring action to combat terrorism, the illicit arms trade and the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. it also imposes a number of human rights obligations on iraq, which are conditions for the implementation of cooperation programmes. the efforts to fully democratise the country should be supported so that, unlike other countries in the region, baghdad becomes a guardian of freedom and a voice for civil liberties, including respect for the rights of women and children. a free, democratic and economically strong iraq can be a stabilizer for the middle east, stimulating global growth in security and prosperity. it's a strategy for years, but our commitment will pay off in the future. let's remember the rights of religious minorities! the priority in relations with iraq must be to eliminate religious tensions, with particular emphasis on the protection of christians.
mr president, we express our solidarity with the people of iraq. we support their calls for democracy and for the dictator of iraq to resign. he is a puppet of the mullahs in iran and is supporting the real butcher of syria, bashar al-assad. we are also very concerned about the situation of the iranian opposition in iraq, members of pmoi. the un envoy, martin kobler has been an absolute disgrace to the values of the united nations. general secretary ban ki-moon should replace him, because this man is working hand in hand with the iranian regime against the iraqi people, including christians and also against the ashraf residents. we call on baroness ashton to be active and to put human rights and democracy first instead of having a good diplomatic relationship and signing business deals with a dictator.
i believe that the eu-iraq partnership and cooperation agreement is an extremely important document. the agreement offers the union a chance to help iraq in practice, not just in declarations, so that iraq can continue to stabilise itself in the years ahead, so that it can develop and democratize. this is extremely urgent and necessary, as there is still a real threat of a return to civil war in iraq. this agreement provides for a whole range of different activities. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the agreement does not cover a very important area. this important area is education and investing in young people. i would urge the european commission to create a special scholarship programme for young, talented iraqis. it would be an investment in the future.
in writing. the agreement with iraq is a continuation of the eu's policy towards iraq. after the war with the united states and the change of regime, the people of this country need support. many countries of the union, including poland, were involved in this conflict. and that's why it's our moral duty to support the iraqi people. the new reality presents a number of challenges for the country in terms of stabilisation, institution building and the exploitation of its potential. we must remember that a society that has suffered a lot and still cannot meet basic needs, let alone the higher goods that allow for normal education and development. cooperation and assistance to iraq is also important from a strategic point of view. a stable iraq is also an opportunity for greater peace and relative understanding in the region. this is very important, especially in view of the continuing tensions in that part of the world.
i'm closing the debate. written declarations (rule 149)
mr. chairman, please! the middle east region has been a flashpoint for years, a constant threat to the world. the middle east peace process continues to be torpedoed by extremist circles. recently, we have also been focusing on the syrian regime's brutality against its own people, as well as iran's aggressive and deeply troubling policies. both countries are suspected of secretly producing nuclear weapons, and both are believed to have large chemical weapons arsenals. the middle east's nuclear-free zone is a noble goal. however, such a process must take place with the full involvement of all the countries of the region, after a prior peaceful resolution of mutual tensions and conflicts. israel cannot be deprived of its shield of identity in the face of a constant threat from some of its neighbours. i would like to remind you that tel aviv has a vital interest in stabilization and peaceful coexistence and has expressed its willingness to participate in such a review conference. i would like to take this opportunity to appeal to the iranian authorities to cease their activities aimed at producing nuclear weapons, which are causing concern to the international community. adherence to international treaties and close cooperation with arms control institutions will contribute to global security.
mr. chairman, please! we are dealing with a very urgent matter today, a matter of our common security, our common future. the middle east has been troubled for many years by the conflict over iran's nuclear programme. if we add to this the ongoing and delayed negotiations on this issue and the civil war in syria, we have a picture of why everything must be done to convene the long-planned conference as soon as possible. the countries of the middle east should also be helped to reach a decision to make their region free of weapons of mass destruction. this is not only a priority for our security, but it's our duty as nobel peace prize winners. i hope we can do it in a short time.
mr president, minister, i have to go. although we are talking about a difficult and complex subject, and a serious one, i wanted to say that just five minutes ago i received information from my political group that i should speak for three minutes instead of two. the only concept that came to mind was to speak slowly. of course we're talking about a serious issue, we're talking about something that we've been talking about for almost 30 years in europe, in the world, in the united nations, about the middle east nuclear-free zone. this is something that seems like a sure dream, but i think everyone is aware of the problems that stand in the way of achieving this lofty, i would say, goal. the middle east is a region of particular conflict, danger, and danger. this is an area where unpredictable political processes are taking place involving many countries, so this idea of a nuclear-free zone in the middle east -- although undoubtedly a peak -- must involve our very deliberate actions, because any decision can threaten this fragile balance that we have in this region. the balance, some say, is based on israel's strategic and technological superiority over other countries, those countries that have a very negative attitude towards israel. it is hard to imagine that the state of israel today would give up this technological advantage in a situation where there are countries in the region that deny the state of israel the right to exist. if you look at the history of the world, these kinds of nuclear-free zones have never been created in a situation where there was no agreement between all the players, between all the states involved in a potential conflict, so it's difficult, as i say, to achieve this in a situation where the states do not recognize each other and are not bound by any security agreements. in the absence of such an agreement, what can we do? we can, of course, take small steps, we can and we should, as the european union, organise dialogues, seminars, conferences between experts, ngos, so that we can try to gradually move to the more important decision-making stages. we must certainly be active in this process as the european union.
in writing. i'm concerned about the rights of the passengers. some airlines change the rules for using their services at will. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 30 june 2012 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 1 july 2012. sometimes luggage gets lost or arrives after a few days. the additional problem is the creation of limits related to the weight, size and type of hand luggage. the simplest terms are changed to mislead the passenger. one day, hand luggage means one thing, the next, something completely different. the changes, the mistakes, the customer pays for them. statistics show that during the global crisis, network carriers in europe experienced a decrease in passenger numbers, while low-cost carriers experienced an increase. in 2010-2011, it was as high as 10%. this tendency is very thought-provoking. according to studies, the share of low-cost airlines in the european market could reach up to 50% by 2020. let's support business growth, but at the same time protect consumer rights. we cannot allow airlines to create confusion and mislead their customers. passengers should be given true information about their rights and be able to appeal quickly and effectively. in europe, there must be a uniform concept of hand luggage. let's just call it one definition. this will increase the transparency and quality of air transport use.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation. i would like to underline that the pca has three different aspects: 1. political (introducing an annual dialogue on subjects like foreign and security policy, national dialogue and reconciliation, democracy, the rule of law, human rights, good governance and regional stability and integration); 2. trade (where the agreement incorporates basic wto rules); 3. human and social development (combating poverty, improving healthcare and education, etc.). this human rights aspect is very important because we have great concern about sectarian violence, especially attacks against christian minorities. i am glad that we have urged the iraqi authorities to work on accession to the rome statute of the icc and emphasised the importance of human rights in our mutual relations. i also welcome the opening of the eu delegation in baghdad. this should further facilitate our cooperation.
in writing. − the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and the republic of iraq has three aspects: political (including the establishment of an annual dialogue on foreign policy, security policy, democracy, human rights), trade (introducing the basic principles of the wto) and social development (combating poverty, improving health and education systems, etc.). the ecr group supports the signing of a partnership and cooperation agreement with iraq, which will give the eu more resources to influence the situation in the country. we believe, however, that the text of the resolution itself does not sufficiently address certain issues. first of all, i am very concerned about acts of religious violence, especially attacks on christian minorities. iraq is now the fourth worst persecutor of christians in the world. there are killings, arson and attacks, and many christians have been forced to flee the country or have moved to the kurdish part of the country. besides, the current government in iraq is one of the most corrupt in the world. despite the restoration of oil production to the level of saddam hussein's rule, billions of dollars disappear without a trace. in addition, the iraqi authorities facilitate and sometimes even facilitate the transport of iranian weapons to the syrian regime.
in writing. - iraq is a country with potential. it has huge potential for oil and gas production and sales, making it a promising economic partner. but iraq is still a seething ethnic and religious pot, mixed by the hands of iran, saudi arabia and qatar and the us. this is illustrated perfectly by the report by mr mauro. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. before the second gulf war, there were about a million of them. today, there are only 200,000 left, plagued by constant, bloody attacks. we should care about their fate. it is therefore necessary to make a firm reference to their tragic situation in the text and to make the signing of the agreement conditional on its improvement. we don't have to sign any treaty with iraq, but if we do, let's put it in a way that we don't have to feel guilty about it.
mr. chairman, please! the main objective of trade agreements with acp countries has always been to integrate them into the world economy and to promote their development by promoting solutions based on stability and democracy. unfortunately, only one economic partnership agreement has been signed so far, with a group of caribbean countries. the enhancement of economic potential as a basis for close cooperation should also apply to the african continent. most of the countries in eastern and southern africa are the least developed countries. trade with this region currently constitutes the margin of the union's international trade. the agreement provides for duty-free access to community markets for specific goods and opens up european exports in the coming years. it is therefore mutually beneficial and further strengthens the partnership and political dialogue. although it covers only a part of the countries of the region, it is an important contribution to its integration process. that is why i support the resolution and i agree to this agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation. a series of interim agreements were concluded to minimise possible trade disruptions for acp partners arising from the expiry of the cotonou trade regime while maintaining progress towards comprehensive regional epas. while the interim agreement went through the domestic approval process, the countries retained duty-free and quota-free access to the eu. the interim economic partnership agreement with madagascar, mauritius, seychelles and zimbabwe has to be seen as a stepping stone to a wider and more comprehensive deal currently under negotiation between the eu and the whole eastern and southern african region. the areas potentially covered by the full epa go beyond trade in goods to include services and investment, and trade-related areas such as sustainable development, competition and trade facilitation.
in writing. - state aid is clearly in need of change. we are now faced with a situation where spain, belgium and france are helping the financial sector by pumping billions of euros into it, and poland is forbidden from helping failing industrial plants that employ thousands of workers. the first example is accepted by the commission, the second is criticised and is considered to be illegal state aid. interestingly, the ec treaty does not contain a precise definition of state aid. it is therefore essential that the appropriate legal framework for the sector be established as soon as possible. the provisions that state aid cannot increase the public debt are of interest. does this not prevent effective public assistance in times of crisis?
in writing. - can there be a middle east without nuclear weapons? no, because it is an essential element in stabilizing this troubled region. the european union is also committed to the development of a region in which israel, squeezed between the arab states, must make every effort to counterbalance the negative factors of its geopolitical and demographic environment. demographics in this region are also a weapon. it is only necessary to recall that the long-term demographic forecast indicates a strong growth of the arab community in the region. a normal pattern of behaviour in the face of overpopulation is to make territorial claims and to fight for the desert region's most important resources - water and fertile land. their absence is only adding to the turmoil in the middle east. another element is the increasingly effective expansion of iran's influence and its proximity to its own nuclear weapons, which can be carried in missile systems that have already been developed and tested. of course, the conflict in syria has weakened tehran to some extent, but it is too early to make a final assessment, especially since the jihadist factions emerging from the chaos do not promise peace. in such an environment, any sign of weakness can become a burden to the balance sheet. that is why nuclear weapons in israel are not only necessary, but a necessary part of the peace landscape.
mr. chairman, please! so far, the european union has not adopted uniform rules for determining the origin of most imported goods. this may therefore cause some confusion and is in direct conflict with the right of citizens to information. this is all the more so as the goods in question are imported from outside the union. the obligation to indicate the country of origin has already been introduced in, for example, the united states, canada and china. this is beneficial for consumers by reducing the risk of purchasing a counterfeit product. it is therefore unfortunate that the commission has withdrawn the regulation on this matter, which has already been adopted by parliament. i am voting in favour of this proposal as a representative of european consumers. i look forward to solutions to eliminate the potential harm caused by making feral products available to citizens and businesses. i would draw the commission's attention to the need to develop procedures in line with the world trade organisation standards which are applied in many countries, including the main competitors of the eu economy.
i hope that the resumption of trade negotiations with the countries of south america after a break of several years will lead to the development of a comprehensive economic agreement covering many sectors. it is a very important economic partner of the european union because of the potential of mutual trade. unfortunately, at the moment, due to the blocking actions of some mercosur members, it is difficult to even predict the date of the finalization of the talks. the trade agreement with the region will undoubtedly contribute to boosting economic growth and employment. i therefore hope that the next ministerial meeting will provide an impetus for concrete commitments and further progress in the negotiations, as the pace of work so far seems far too slow. for my part, i would like to draw the attention of the negotiators to the issues of consumer protection and investment, since mutual trust in this area is also essential for a proper and favourable trade. i support the resolution.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would prefer that we avoid the language that my predecessor used in this discussion, which is that when we deal with a particular issue, we begin to condemn that culture, we begin to condemn that civilization and traditions. rape is not born of tradition, rape is the result of crime, it is the result of thinking badly about women, or about one's neighbor in general. we should focus on what is the subject of our debate, which is the fight against oppression and violence against women. but we shouldn't attack culture, because it's not culture that's responsible for the fact that we were shocked by what happened in india. we should not condemn a country, a culture, a civilization or a religion for this terrible act, we should condemn this act and help that society to prevent these things from happening, because there are some terrible things happening there that are just as bad as in our countries, and we should remember that. (the speaker agreed to answer two questions by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i would not, god forbid, minimize what happened and think that the terrible thing did not happen. but if it is, as you say, that someone is justifying this act, that someone thinks it's a woman's fault, then it's unacceptable. i know that in criminology there's a thing called victimology, which is the act of pretending or proving that the victim is responsible for some terrible act being committed with her. this is obviously unacceptable. and here, in that sense, i agree with you. but it's important that we don't see in the culture, in the religion, in the civilization of that country, that there's a license for that, because there can't be a license for that.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i think, mr. ambassador, that on the issues of abortion and the preservation of human life, we are on the same side of the political or ideological debate. and here you will find me a believer in the idea that life should be respected from the moment of conception. and today we're talking about violence, violence against women. but that's a little different than violence against unborn children. in the first case, you have me as your ally, in the second case, we must differ.
unlike most of you, i was in india, and even recently -- a couple of days ago -- and i saw the great strength of indian society, of civil society, that was able to take to the streets. they were also young and old women and they showed this great face of india. and i was filled with admiration for these people who really can make a difference in their country. it is worth mentioning them here today. i would like to say that we should not say things like mrs. ojuland, who said that india is the worst country for women. i can name dozens of muslim countries where women have far fewer rights in every respect than in india. let's not get carried away here. let us condemn rape, let us condemn fatal practices, but let us try not to overdo it, because it really doesn't lead to anything. and i'm talking about india in the context of it being the country of indira gandhi, the female prime minister. (the speaker agreed to answer the three questions by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card.. we all agree that a terrible thing has happened and terrible things are happening. we will be passing a resolution together today condemning this, but in fact, each of us knows full well that there are many muslim countries where women do not have 10% of the career opportunities, social opportunities that women have in india, and are much less protected than women in india. let's look at this, too. i think we're in agreement on this.
the question asked by raising the blue card. the ambassador has appealed to us not to exaggerate. one million abortions in 2011 because of the sex of the child in india, over 20,000 rapes a year, half of girls are married before they turn 18, and 2 million girls are circumcised every year. does the commissioner think that these figures are exaggerated?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i have been in the european parliament for eight years with mr kaczmarek and i see a kind of degradation of his personality. you are extremely demagogic, as is your political party, i must tell you. it's a scandal what you just said. i condemn these facts more than you, but i was just saying that you can't be blind when it comes to issues in muslim countries where women have much less rights than women in india. i beg you to understand!
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i agree with that, of course, but i also want to emphasize that we have to talk about the mature response of the indian society, including the many thousands of women who took to the streets, and also the indian authorities who reacted to this, finally, because finally, but they reacted the right way.
mr. chairman, please! the status of women in india is undoubtedly in need of change, and that change will not be easy or quick, because the status of women has been shaped for thousands of years. of course, this does not mean that we should become discouraged or give up. we should support those institutions and individuals in india who are fighting against selective and forced abortion, against infanticide, against early marriage and violence against women. i believe that one of the key ways to bring about lasting and profound social change is through education. without a change in mindset, you cannot change social relations. india prides itself on being the world's largest democracy. unfortunately, this scale also produces negative phenomena, such as violence against women, which is of a frightening scale, and we have already talked about this. india will only be truly great when all these numbers are much smaller.
in writing. the recent cases of sexual rape of women in india clearly show how much of a problem the country has with the use of various forms of violence against hindu women. global media sites are full of information about the shocking practices that are being used against women and girls. many of these reports tell of tragic cases of parents deliberately killing their baby girls shortly after birth or deliberately aborting them because of the sex of the baby. worse still, in some parts of india, these inhuman and punishable practices are met with tacit social approval. it is therefore very important that the international public opinion gives the widest possible support to the indians protesting against rape and violence against women. hopefully, this will change the perception of women in india as less valuable than men and of girls as unwanted children. i therefore urge the council and the commission to use all possible legal and diplomatic means to demand that the indian government protect women from discrimination and effectively punish those who commit crimes and violence against them.
in writing. in light of the recent events in india, involving the death of a victim of a brutal gang rape, i would like to express my deep concern about the safety of women in india. i support the motion calling on the indian authorities to act. india, as an important partner of the eu, but above all as one of the world's largest democracies, is committed to respecting fundamental human rights, the values of democracy and the rule of law. given the statistics on the scale of violence against women in india, i call on the authorities to improve the legal system and increase the effectiveness of law enforcement agencies to ensure the safety of citizens, especially women, who are particularly vulnerable to acts of violence or aggression. the government of india should also consider expanding the system of assistance to victims of violence, as well as taking preventive measures such as raising public awareness and sensitization to the problem. improving women's safety is not just a matter of changing infrastructure and laws. the current situation is greatly influenced by the mentality of the whole society and the generally accepted position of women. the government should take into account the root causes of the problem and along with legislative reform, take preventive and educational measures. at the same time, in solidarity with the victims and the young people protesting in the streets of india, i hope that the government, but also the society as a whole, will see this as a motivation to implement reforms that fully guarantee the basic human rights of all citizens.
in writing. – india is a home to a thriving democracy and to a recent stunning economic growth. unfortunately,this has not prevented serious human rights abuses from happening in various parts of the country. by now, many have heard of the horrifying rape and murder of a young student in the heart of india’s capital–new delhi. i would like to emphasize that this is not a single act of violence against women in that country. the statistics are terrifying-every 21 minutes,a woman is raped in india. most rapes remain unreported and even those rapes that are, often end up unpunished. the brutality of the crime meant that the usual regressive attitudes of india’s leadership were roundly condemned and the protests demanding action have grown louder. i call on the commission and other eu institutions to convince the indian government to improve the way they tackle this problem. i'm convinced it's not only the case of introducing new law, as there are already plenty of unenforced ones, but to change the way in which rape investigations are conducted. i strongly believe, the problem is fundamentally a lack of justice and impunity. indian government should take actions to start changing culture of the country from one that blames women to the one treating rape as a crime and punishing rapists.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. human rights violations are crimes that cannot be tolerated by any country in the world. it is unthinkable that some governments would allow such actions. bahrain is one of the countries with a notorious record of human rights violations. christians are the first to be oppressed. murder, rape, persecution are common practices and often accepted by the government. the european parliament has repeatedly condemned such actions, but it is not enough for this house to express its opinion. it is becoming more important to take a series of actions to curb such practices. the european union has instruments it can use to protect christians. the absence of such action is an expression of the european union's weakness and tolerance of the harm suffered by christians.
mr. chairman, please! we need to have a very clear position as the european union towards the bahraini authorities and send a very clear signal to the bahraini authorities that we support these constitutional changes that improve human rights or women's rights. but we will not support, from the institutions of the european union or the member states of the european union, the violation of human rights, the persecution of the opposition and - unfortunately, this often happens in arab countries - the use of the pretext of fighting terrorism or islamic radicalism to fight the opposition or democratic institutions or human rights activists. we as the european union must be clear that we condemn this kind of practice. we must of course be careful that whatever steps we take do not affect the whole of society, but the european union has certain mechanisms, it has certain tools that it can use in this way. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask my colleague, mr lisek, whether he is aware that the situation in these arab countries is more complicated than we think. i was in bahrain, and bahrain is the only country in that part of the world that allows christians to build churches, where they have daily services, and on sundays, churches are filled with thousands of worshippers. and it's worth pointing out, too.
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i thank the honourable member very much for his remarks. of course i am aware of these facts and that is why i think i made it quite clear in my speech that we should distinguish between what is good and those changes that, at least in the announcements of the bahraini authorities, are moving towards the democratization of the state, and condemn those actions that are contrary to the rules and international obligations in the field of human rights.
mr. chairman, please! it is the duty of the european parliament to pay particular attention to all cases where fundamental freedoms and human rights are violated. today, once again, we are in this room to address the problem of the bahraini authorities' violation of the law. the bahraini authorities continue to use violence and persecution against their citizens who demand democratic reforms. this is evidenced by the recent ruling of bahrain's highest court of appeal, which upheld the sentences, including life sentences, against the leaders of the 2011 pro-democracy protests. therefore, while recognising that it is our duty to condemn all forms of discrimination and all acts of injustice against freedom and human life, i call on the commission to support the efforts to free prisoners fighting for democracy in bahrain.
mr. chairman, please! inspired by the success of the arab spring, bahrainis also took to the streets to demand reforms and respect for democracy and civil liberties. this february marks two years since the first mass, peaceful social protests unfortunately so far unsuccessful. the bahraini authorities have remained unmoved by the demands of the people, brutally suppressing any demonstration. intimidation, torture and unlawful detention of detainees are part of everyday reality. however, in recent years, the bahraini government has made official commitments to democratic reforms and to cooperation with international human rights organisations. the resolution also called for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. we expect the bahraini authorities to honour their commitments. only a constructive dialogue with the public, based on the principles of justice and responsibility, can lead to a lasting solution that will allow the stabilisation of the internal situation and peace in the country.
in writing. in today's resolution, we are once again forced to criticize the actions of the bahraini authorities. for months, the country has been the scene of disturbing incidents that call into question the respect for international human rights standards. it is unacceptable that we should not react to the growing number of cases of unlawful arrests and detentions of protesting children in recent weeks, which is a clear violation of the convention on the rights of the child. the arbitrary decision by the bahraini authorities to strip 31 activists of their citizenship in violation of the universal declaration of human rights, because of the alleged threat they pose to the security of the state, is also to be condemned. we should be alarmed by the long prison sentences for dissidents and the use of force against peaceful demonstrators. however, the bahraini authorities have remained deaf to repeated calls to stop the violations of fundamental rights and freedoms and to engage in peaceful dialogue with the opposition. concerns about the democratic conduct of the elections in bahrain in 2014 require the international community to monitor the situation in bahrain more closely. i believe that the european union, as an organisation built on the foundation of respect for human rights, has a special role to play in this process. i also believe that in the light of the current attitude of the bahraini authorities, our actions should be more firm and decisive.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are in the process of negotiating an economic partnership agreement, which also covers the central african republic. the country has many important natural resources, such as oil, gold, diamonds, and uranium, which could pose a great danger if deposits of these resources were to fall outside the control of the government. the agreement on a ceasefire and the conditions for political stability should therefore be welcomed. during the civil war that was started by muslim rebels, both sides committed serious crimes. the recruitment of homeless children into armed conflict must be strongly opposed and scandalized. rape and religious violence were also tolerated. we are now facing a catastrophic humanitarian situation there, exacerbated by the criminal activity and the difficulty of getting outside help. respect for the ceasefire and close cooperation between the parties to the conflict are the foundations for the start of the reconstruction of the state and the development of the country. the perpetrators of war crimes must be brought to justice.
mr. chairman, please! the central african republic is, of course, a country where the humanitarian situation can be described as dramatic. unfortunately, attempts to provide food aid have failed, as many food supplies have been looted, attacked by rebels. so we must call on the government to allow humanitarian organizations safe access to the people who need help. the second thing is what my predecessor said. the union should, of course, express its firm opposition to the practice of recruiting children into armed groups and armies. and the third thing that the central african republic is demanding is, of course, political calm. the european union should accompany the economic community of central african states and the african union and provide technical assistance in the preparation of the elections.
mr. chairman, please! the central african republic has natural resources of european significance, which are of interest to the whole world. it is on the basis of these resources that cooperation between central africa and, for example, china, a country for which the promotion of democracy and the protection of human rights are of no importance, is developing very dynamically. how does europe, with its message of human rights and the building of democratic systems that always accompany the development of economic cooperation, compete with, say, china? how far can european ideas be implemented in central africa through economic cooperation?
mr. chairman, please! i would like to thank all of you who signed the written declaration supporting the global zero action plan. i have to admit that initiatives like this need a lot of trust and it's important that we work together, together to raise awareness, and to work towards a world free of nuclear weapons. this room sends a clear message that nuclear weapons are a relic of the past and must be removed in order to ensure a safer world for future generations. with the increase in the number of nuclear weapons and plutonium that are lost, there is a constant danger that these weapons may fall into the wrong hands. to free the world from this ever-growing threat, we must eliminate nuclear weapons completely. i firmly believe that the european union can help. we can't live in fear of making a mistake. we owe it to our constituents and to future generations to take this action and this collective elimination of nuclear weapons.
in writing. when faced with the issue of whether or not to apply specific measures for agriculture in the context of the smaller aegean islands, we are faced not only with a question posed directly in the subject, but also with a much broader context. the specificity (number) of small islands presents a challenge to the territorial cohesion policy, written from the outset in eu law and expressed in economic and social cohesion policy. the maintenance of the foundations of a defined policy in each and, in particular, in this particular context, means ensuring that the strong link between the various territorial units is maintained. the smaller islands, located on the outskirts of the archipelagos, far from the core islands, are faced with a particularly difficult challenge in this respect. this also means ensuring that measures are taken to reduce the disparities between the above areas and to improve their accessibility. it should be universally approved. by accepting a project, we reach out to a region that needs this support, even if only to break through the often most difficult barrier of isolation to overcome on its own.
mr. chairman, please! violence against women is the main obstacle to genuine democracy, gender equality and the most widespread violation of human rights. in some countries, 7 out of 10 women are victims of violence. it's the result of patriarchy, which is unfortunately perpetuated by many religions. in poland, under the influence of the catholic church, women are subjected to institutional violence in the form of a restrictive anti-abortion law. the church also opposed the government's signing of the council of europe convention against violence against women. we cannot help but notice that many religions have a negative influence on the issue of violence against women. i call for an eu directive against violence! only then will the union and the member states be effective and reliable partners in the fight against violence against women. i also call for the union and all member states to sign and ratify the council of europe convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. support for women's rights, human rights and lgbt rights defenders is also important.
i'm not going to let you down. we appreciate your work on women's issues in general. it's not just about fighting discrimination, it's not just about fighting rape, but it's also about your actions - i would say - positive for the advancement of women. but we are discussing violence right now, and i want to say that this parliament has raised this issue many times. we talked about the use of rape as a form of disempowerment of entire groups in war. we talked about rape recently in connection with what happened in india. but it is true that we pass certain things, we debate resolutions, and then the next day there are even more brutal and dramatic rapes, murders and violence against women. so i'd like to ask you two things. firstly, a much greater emphasis on this issue in foreign policy, an agreement with catherine ashton that, in the field of human rights, the fight against crime against women should be given special consideration. punishment is one thing. the second thing we're talking about here is prevention. i think that in our foreign policy, in the various funds and projects that we accept, this issue of cooperation with women's rights organisations should be more taken into account. second, i'd like to ask that you promote the prosecution of statutory rape. i don't believe there can be eu directives on rape as senysyn suggested but it could be the promotion of prosecution of rape by officers in different countries.
mr. chairman, please! the brutal violence against women deserves the strongest condemnation, but also concrete action. unfortunately, it's not enough to just make sure that the perpetrator is punished and found, it's not enough to just prosecute them. a correspondingly severe punishment is also necessary. let's remember that for women who have been raped, this type of crime is a huge trauma, it's a cause for shame when they report to the law enforcement authorities, when the proceedings are taking place, when they have to remember all this, talk, testify, sometimes also in front of men, then in court. this is another drama for them. and this drama has to make sense. they need to see a purpose: why they're doing it. not for the sheer satisfaction, but for the sense of security, because they also have a sense of justice, that the evil that has been done will be paid for, that the punishment that is meted out will protect them from committing such crimes in the future. if the system doesn't provide that guarantee, that sense of meaningful involvement of women in the law enforcement process, then women are not going to be willing to bring these cases to the prosecutor's office.
in writing. fellow students and colleagues! the debate on combating violence against women and girls and eliminating all forms of violence against women and girls shows the scale of the problem of violations of fundamental human rights. as statistics show, in all cultures and societies, to a greater or lesser extent, regardless of income, social class and culture, women and young girls are subjected to physical, sexual or psychological violence. developing an interdisciplinary approach to tackling the problem and thus the challenge of eliminating violence against women within families, communities and states is necessary and achievable. action is needed at all levels to combat this worrying and growing phenomenon. the actions of the united nations and the beijing platform for action should be supported at international level, while education systems that promote mutual respect and cooperation between women and men should be promoted at national level. the european union has a very important role to play here, and i believe that we must highlight the scale of this phenomenon and work effectively to eliminate it. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please! the crisis is a special time to support small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are the ones who actually save jobs and drive the economy during a crisis. and the owners of small, often family-owned businesses actually go bankrupt, whereas the owners of banks that refuse to lend to them, they don't go bankrupt, even though they have terrible financial results and they get high bonuses. and that's the asymmetry i want to draw attention to. it's good that there are 112 billion euro guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises, it's good that there are over 2 billion for subprime loans, but let's remember how much went to the banks. here we have the asymmetry again. something is wrong with the banking system, and the european commission has to intervene. and that's -- i think that's -- that's something that we should talk about more.
in writing. i would like to start by congratulating mr de backer on a very good report. i believe that the implementation of its recommendations would make it significantly easier for smes to finance their planned investments. i believe that one of the priorities should be to work towards further removing the bureaucratic barriers that entrepreneurs encounter at every stage of their business. it is also important that entrepreneurs have a range of innovative financing mechanisms at their disposal that they can tailor to their company's current needs. entrepreneurship development also depends to a large extent on entrepreneurship education at all stages of education, starting from pre-school education. the european social fund, whose role is increasing in the future funding period, is a useful tool for this purpose. the sme studies show that the number of loans granted to smes has decreased significantly compared to the pre-crisis situation. this appears to be due not only to the tightening of lending criteria by banks, but also to the reluctance of smes to borrow in the current uncertain economic environment. businesses are expecting positive signals about the stability of the markets. i believe that one such signal would be the adoption of the new multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, which i hope will happen in the near future.
in writing. on improving access to finance for smes, i would like to stress that in times of crisis the european union needs sustainable development. it is important that its achievement is strongly dependent on well-functioning enterprises. only their real development and a stable business environment can guarantee the eu's exit from the crisis. the eu's economic success depends on the creation of new jobs, especially in well-functioning enterprises. i would like to point out that european companies are extremely diverse both in terms of employment and in terms of the specific features of their operations in the markets they serve, and that the introduction of standardised rigid procedures could have disastrous consequences. therefore, the solutions and procedures should be sufficiently flexible to ensure that support for entrepreneurs is fully transparent. the action plan on access to finance for smes proposed by the european commission provides a number of solutions. i think that the most appropriate aspects are the removal of unnecessary regulatory burdens and tax barriers that restrict the freedom of companies to operate. it is also appropriate to indicate in the report of the parliamentary committee that 20% of the amount under the 'horizon 2020' programme is allocated to support innovation in smes. in addition, i think it is appropriate to simplify and shorten bankruptcy procedures in order to give a second chance to entrepreneurs who have not succeeded in taking on the challenges of running their own business.
madam president! the stability and safety of health systems is directly linked to access to good and effective medicines. unfortunately, european society is getting older. this means that medicines will be a bigger and bigger part of the budget, especially for older europeans. unfortunately, we see that some pharmaceutical companies are using their dominant position to drive up the prices of medicines to different levels in different countries of the european union. moreover, there are even reports of corrupt practices, attempts to influence decision-makers who decide that certain medicines of certain companies are reimbursed and others are not. in poland, for example, the issue of reimbursement of diabetes medication has caused a great deal of public concern. transparency and clarity in this area are therefore extremely important, but we also need to consider the prevention of corruption mechanisms that - due to the temptation of big money - also arise in connection with the activities of pharmaceutical companies.
the economic crisis is inevitably reflected in the state of industry in europe, that's a fact. it is hardly surprising, but it is clear that the effects of this crisis far outweigh the situation we are seeing in the european economy today. unfortunately, there is a lot of talk here in the european parliament, in the european commission, about deregulation, about reducing the influence of the administration on the free market. instead of action, there are more words, and in fact, regulation is increasing, the number of officials is increasing. there is also a real problem with the consequences that the european parliament and the european commission are pushing for with the climate package. we're surprised that the owner of the big mills wants to move production outside europe, but he can count. he's just counting, wondering if it's worth it to produce steel in europe if energy prices are going to rise. why would they grow? because there are solutions to the climate package, which, through the support of the states for the documents, inevitably leads to higher energy prices. if the price of energy goes up, then the profitability of steel production in europe goes down, and if it does, then this man - as a businessman who is not involved in charity - will move his production where it pays more. unfortunately, action is producing results, including action by the european parliament and the european commission, which does not take into account the real game of competition interests in the world, does not take into account that the climate package is rejected by the united states, russia, china, india or brazil. the european union wants to be at the front of the line. unfortunately, this is the only way it works to the detriment of its own economy. we have to learn from this. if there is a crisis, we must help the economy, we must do everything we can to reduce regulation, we must do everything we can to reduce energy costs, we must rethink the climate package, because its effects will certainly be visible, but in terms of eliminating jobs in europe and moving other areas of production outside europe. we're guaranteed that, that's for sure. and the question is, do we want to pay that price?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank and congratulate mrs ulrice rodust for the enormous amount of work she has put into this difficult report. the compromise reached shows the extraordinary commitment of the rapporteur. the need to reform the common fisheries policy is felt by all: fishermen, processors, the coastal community and the environment. the current common fisheries policy overshadows the concept of central management of resources without taking account of the specific characteristics of individual waters. the most significant and incomprehensible effect of the current common fisheries policy is the waste of thousands of tonnes of healthy fish by the discarding of discards. this is the biggest paradox of the common fisheries policy, which contributes to the degradation of the environment and the fishing industry. the common fisheries policy is based on several basic pillars. the main one is regionalization, which will shape the rules for individual waters to a much greater extent than in the past. it is worth mentioning here the weakness of the lisbon treaty, which makes it impossible to carry out full regionalisation, which confirms the need for changes. the second essential element of the common fisheries policy is to leave the decision on fishing rights to the member states. mandating the european commission to sell quotas would be extremely damaging to the future of fisheries and create private waters where resources would have only financial value. another element of the common policy is the protection of small-scale fisheries, which are mainly family businesses and are particularly sensitive to the preservation of the common market. for many coastal areas, small-scale fishing offers the opportunity to create many, many jobs while maintaining a sustainable approach. the last element is aquaculture, which must complement the fishing industry and its development significantly increases the labour market. the new common fisheries policy creates opportunities for aquaculture. at the same time, i want to say that the ecr group will support the report under discussion.
in writing. the reform of the common fisheries policy, which is being negotiated in parliament, will improve the state of the environment and the situation of fishermen in the european union. the introduction of a binding ban on overfishing and the stopping of fish overfishing is a great achievement of parliament, and in particular of the socialist group. the european union needs reform that will protect and save the environment from destruction, while ensuring decent incomes for the fisheries and fish processing sectors. overfishing is not just a problem for the environment, but also for fishermen and consumers. the reason for the disadvantage of the former is the setting of fishing quotas. each year, the fisheries ministers of the member states set the quotas too high, often simply to avoid losing their electorate. parliament's negotiators have, however, managed to reach a compromise that will ensure that the reform is not just a vague promise to improve the situation of fishermen, but also to provide consumers with easier and cheaper access to fish. since the last reform of the common fisheries policy 10 years ago, the subject has been developing slowly. the council makes more rational decisions. the reform we have supported today goes a step further by committing member states to a sustainable and rationalised fixing of quotas. the introduction of maximum sustainable yield from 2015 will help protect our seas from overfishing and provide a sense of stability for fishermen and consumers.
in writing. thank you for your vote and thank you to mrs rodust and all the co-rapporteurs for their work on this important report. unfortunately, despite the long hours of work, it is still not sustainable, especially when it comes to the implementation of environmental legislation. i believe that there is a hierarchy between fisheries policy and environmental protection, although they should be on an equal footing. for example, you cannot make money from the european maritime and fisheries fund dependent on the administrative efficiency of the ministry of the environment. and such provisions to the disadvantage of fishermen will appear in mrs rodust's report. another very important issue is regionalization, i.e. fisheries management at regional level, taking into account the specificities of individual waters. the reform should contribute to the separation of roles in this area. the eu legislators will define the main legal framework and basic principles, while the actual implementing decisions will be taken at a lower level, closer to the fisheries reality. regionalization should be a pillar of the reform of the common fisheries policy. unfortunately, the shape proposed by the rapporteur is unsatisfactory. in the vote on wednesday, i will support the idea of reform and i will vote for mrs rodust's report. i would like to stress, however, that i do not think that the report is optimal. i will support it, however, because it is the european parliament's position on the reform of the cap and it is the starting point for further negotiations. but i expect it to be greatly improved in the next stages of development.
in writing. - i support the report by mr georgios papastamkos on specific measures for agriculture in the smaller aegean islands. the introduction of specific measures will compensate for the difficulties arising from the islands' isolation, insularity, small size, mountainous terrain and climate. the aim of the efforts undertaken is to support agricultural activities, including the production, processing, marketing and transport of local products. i believe that this will help to increase trade and improve the profitability of agricultural production, which is carried out in unfavourable conditions not only because of the particular geographical and environmental conditions, but also because of the high costs of raw materials and transport. i hope that the solutions proposed will improve the existing system of support for agriculture in the smaller aegean islands and ensure an improvement in the economic, social and territorial cohesion of the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. this regulation provides agricultural measures that are intended to address the challenges faced by those farming on greek islands in the aegean sea (with the exception of crete and evia). the measures included in this regulation have two key aims: assist with the additional costs involved in transporting certain agricultural products between the islands and the mainland and foster the development of local production, cultural heritage and traditional characteristics of production methods. it is important to remember that the particularly difficult farming conditions on the smaller aegean islands are being compounded by external pressures as a result of illegal migration. the dispersal of the islands and their position in relation to each other within the archipelago creates obstacles to supply and trade, resulting in greatly increased transport costs. existing transport networks are inadequate and undermined by structural weaknesses (ageing fleets, high fares).
in writing. - the aegean islands are divided into several archipelagos. most of them belong to greece. this fragmentation of the area increases the cost of transportation in food supplies and trade. additional problems are high fees and an outdated fleet. moreover, the lack of raw materials, as well as the unusual geophysical location (the union's external borders) and climate (dry, rocky soils) further exacerbate the problems of the local population. the supply of basic products to the inhabitants of the smaller aegean islands is therefore an important issue in the context of the aid granted by the european community. of course, this aid is implemented by the greek institutions with the approval of the european commission. however, it should also be considered to apply this aid to such an extent that it is compatible with community law and policies (given, however, the poor experience in this area in the past). i am thinking mainly of the common agricultural policy. i hope that the forces and resources that are being deployed in that region will have a positive impact on the lives of the communities there.
in writing. − food prices are rising, so even extreme conditions are becoming viable. however, it is problematic to increase the financial burden on the development of crops in the extreme conditions of the aegean sea, when at the same time it is much more economical to use the production capacity of the fields located in central europe, for example by equalising the subsidies for farmers from the new member states with those received by farmers from the old member states. i voted to pass the document today. the amendments it makes are undoubtedly strengthening the whole document, making the whole initiative more effective. i hope, however, that in the near future we will be voting on a document which will strengthen the common agricultural policy while retaining a certain idea of increasing the efficiency of the money spent.
in writing. - i supported the report on specific measures in the field of agriculture for the outermost regions of the european union, as i believe that it is necessary to support areas whose economic and social development is seriously hampered by their remoteness, insularity, small size, topography or climate. agriculture in these regions is particularly important and represents a strategic sector of the economy. it is the most important source of employment and economic development and a factor in ensuring food security. i believe that the eu's support measures will help to develop agricultural production in the outermost regions, increase its profitability and ensure an adequate level of supply of high-quality agricultural products to the local population.
in writing. − the programme of options specific to the remote and insular nature of the outermost regions (posei) was set up in 1991 to provide support for the outermost french, portuguese and spanish regions (guadeloupe, french guyana, martinique, réunion, saint-barthélemy and saint-martin in france; the azores and madeira in portugal; and the canary islands in spain). i believe that posei measures still play a crucial role in supporting and developing farming and the processing industry in these regions. if the posei programme did not exist, it would be difficult for these sectors to remain viable, owing to the economic difficulties faced by these outermost regions as a result of their geographical location and the limited scope that they have for diversification. the purpose of the proposal is alignment to the lisbon treaty (art. 290 and 291 tfeu), recasting and simplification. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the outermost regions of the european union are the so-called peripheral regions, which belong to the individual member states. the outermost regions include martinique, madeira, the azores, guadeloupe, the canary islands and french guiana. the ec treaty says that the outermost regions of the european union should be given special treatment, taking into account their specific situation. of course, their unusual location means that these 'peripheries' face serious socioeconomic difficulties, mainly in the industrial processing and agricultural sectors. in order to eliminate socioeconomic disparities and disproportions, the community has implemented a number of aid programmes. the poseidom, poseican and poseima actions, which focused on increasing employment and infrastructure, are worth mentioning. the posei programme has been in operation since 2006. the reports show that the measures targeting these regions are helping to overcome the difficulties in the regions described to some extent, although it should also be borne in mind that the unemployment rate is still very high (twice the eu unemployment rate). moreover, given the specific circumstances and the weaker position, the recovery requires strong attention in the longer term. i hope that the measures for the overseas regions, especially the agricultural sector, will not be 'overrun' in the proverbial way, but will have the intended effect of creating new jobs.
in writing. − the outermost regions have been receiving financial assistance for years. unfortunately, many of these measures - due to poor soil conditions and unfavourable weather in these regions - are unable to ensure progress and positive changes in agriculture. therefore, the volume of the measures does not translate into either quality or quantity. all the more reason to think about the appropriate allocation of resources, while at the same time considering whether it is worth continuing to invest huge resources in increasingly unprofitable regions. wouldn't it be better to equalise the amount of direct payments for farmers from the so-called new and old eu countries? these measures will increase production and reduce costs. i believe that the report in question still lacks an answer to the fundamental question of the continued usefulness of the cap in its present form.
mr. chairman, please! the sme group is by far the largest economic driver in the european union and the most vulnerable sector. particularly in times of recession and ever-increasing unemployment, our attention should be directed towards small businesses, as any fluctuations in this area affect the entire internal market. let us remember that small and mediumsized enterprises account for 85 per cent of jobs. i therefore support the commission's proposal to make it easier for businesses to access long-term investment funds under the single market act. the problems of failing companies, which are often unable to obtain the necessary credit, must also be addressed urgently. reducing the formalities required to start a new business would help many companies to branch out. i would also like to draw the commission's attention to the effects of tax increases in many member states, which are having a particularly severe impact on the situation of small businesses and consumers.
i just want to say thank you so much. i am also one of those members who very strongly support parliament's position on improving access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. these are the enterprises that create the vast majority of new jobs in europe. it's the same in my country, poland. however, it is worth noting that smes are very different and not all of them are of the same size. there is therefore no one-size-fits-all solution that will suit all businesses. so they need to be supported in a very different way and investments need to be supported. in particular, i believe that their access to the eu's structural funds should be made much more flexible. this is a reserve which these companies should actively and better use.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report of the committee on economic and monetary affairs on facilitating access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). the parliament's initiative in this regard is worthy of support, inter alia, because of the role of smes in generating economic growth. these are the companies that have the largest share of the european labour market. the proposed increase in the european investment bank's sme funding therefore deserves broad support and the earliest possible implementation. we know that even the best business ideas can't find a place in the market if there's no investment capital.
in writing. − smes are vital to the european economy and to the creation of jobs that are so badly needed in the eu. meanwhile, the crisis has made lenders overly cautious about lending to businesses. there is also no incentive to invest in smes, which needs to change quickly, otherwise we will not be able to use the potential that smes have to offer. the economic difficulties have exposed a number of problems faced by european companies in terms of financing. i voted for the report because we need to make it easier for smes to access finance, and the report identifies a number of significant barriers in this regard and points out areas where improvements are possible. it appears that access to finance for european smes is hampered, inter alia, by the lack of information on financing. it is also necessary to restore confidence in lending institutions. the economic crisis has not only made financial institutions less willing to lend, but also smes have often given up on credit because of a lack of confidence. it is also necessary to promote crossborder investment, inter alia by removing administrative and tax barriers. double taxation discourages smes from entering the markets of other countries and simplification is needed here. smes need to have the right legal environment to benefit fully from the internal market, which will be beneficial for the european economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it does a good job in highlighting the specific vulnerabilities of smes: lack of access to finance, financial literacy and proper managerial skills, resilience to late payments and short payment periods, etc. i agree that the financial envelope for the debt and equity finance instruments under the cosme programme and under horizon 2020 should be substantially increased, and access to them for smes considerably improved. the commission should provide an appropriate, tailored regulatory framework for issuers of funding to smes that will not be burdensome for them and which can win investors’ confidence. cohesion policy is one of the main sources of financial support for smes, which is why we have underlined that funding programmes under the structural funds, reduction in red tape and increased speed and efficiency are essential to fostering the recovery of the eu economy.
in writing. − smes are one of the most important pillars of the european union's economy, generating growth and jobs. i think we should look after their development and, above all, improve access to funding. it is important to reduce red tape, including the administrative burden associated with the procedures for preparing and subsequently settling applications. it is necessary to facilitate access to micro-credit, especially for young entrepreneurs, and to support innovation activities, i.e. innovation incubators, clusters and business, science, research and development centres, which are the main contributors to the competitiveness of regions. i believe that by acting together we can meet the challenges facing smes in the european union, and that is why i voted in favour of the philippe de backer report. thank you, sir.
in writing. − small and medium enterprises play a crucial role in the european union, constituting the foundations of our economy. as the economic crisis continues however, they still face disabling problems with access to financing, which is necessary for their development and investment for the future. parliament therefore welcomes the steps taken by the commission within the planning of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, and in particular the new funding programmes such as cosme, which through the use of innovative financing instruments will help the situation of smes throughout europe, fostering sustainable recovery. proper and transparent implementation of these programmes must be ensured however.
in writing. - smes are the backbone of the eu economy. they represent 99% of all enterprises and account for more than two thirds of all private sector jobs. in addition, it should be noted that over the last five years, the sme sector has contributed to over 80% of new jobs in the eu. at the same time, however, european smes are less inclined to expand beyond their home member state, leading to downsizing and redundancies in the face of falling domestic demand as a result of the crisis. the main reasons for this are the lack of access to adequate capital and reliable information on external markets. the micro-credit programmes for smes and the financial assistance instruments offered by the european investment bank certainly need to be developed. in the area of access to market information, there is a need to create financial and technical assistance instruments that will enable smes to overcome barriers to access to new markets. it's all about the legal barriers and the red tape. the development of new markets for our smes is essential, given their key role in job creation. at a time of rising unemployment on our continent, support for the sme sector is absolutely essential.
in writing. - small and medium-sized enterprises are a pillar of the european union's economy they represent 98% of european enterprises and provide over 67% of jobs in the european union. therefore, it is very important to give them proper support. this support is offered by the eu institutions, which were set up precisely to improve and stimulate economic processes. due to the effects of the financial and economic crisis, many smes are experiencing greater difficulties in accessing finance. smes must now meet the new, and sometimes more stringent, criteria required by the legislation. i therefore support and consider it important to adopt the draft resolution, because it aims to facilitate and improve the functioning of smes. the draft resolution aims to reduce red tape and facilitate access to public procurement by creating a fair, open and transparent eu regulatory framework for public procurement and proportionate, transparent and non-discriminatory posting of workers in the provision of services. this project emphasises the importance of strengthening local banking systems, proposes relevant mentoring and coaching support programmes and services for knowledge-based enterprises, and supports the 'erasmus' programme for young entrepreneurs. the draft resolution proposes to improve the financing of the sector by making it more professional, improving cooperation and information exchange between smes and lenders, monitoring the financial situation of smes more systematically, establishing clear rules on the use of (personal) guarantees, establishing clear rules on early repayment of loans, possible penalties and the calculation of the financing loss.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of improving access to finance for smes (2012/2134(ini)) in an effort to continue to boost our economy. at this point in time it is necessary to work with smes to help stimulate our economy and hopefully move forward to a more prosperous period. as stated in the report the smes are the back bone of our economy and need assistance in order to continue growth in our union. the jobs and services provided through these companies are vital to europe and in many cases, the world. we must not take them for granted and we must offer protection and financial assistance when needed. the european union has long stood on the foundations of capitalism and the smes are a key player in this idea we must continue to encourage growth which will in turn encourage employment and a strong economy.
in writing. − smes are economic operators, regardless of their legal form. the main factors determining whether a company can be considered an sme are the number of employees and the annual turnover or the total annual balance sheet. thus, medium-sized enterprises are those with fewer than 250 employees and an annual turnover of less than eur 50 million or an annual balance sheet total of less than eur 43 million. small enterprises are those with fewer than 50 employees, an annual turnover of eur 10 million or a total annual balance sheet of less than eur 10 million. the sme sector is one of the economic pillars of the european union. currently, around 67% of the union's workforce is employed in smes. in the current difficult economic downturn, it is much more difficult for small firms to operate in the market than their larger counterparts. this is because it is much more difficult to obtain credit for further development in the face of a crisis, especially when it comes to the development of an innovative company, which often requires a large financial outlay. the growing unemployment, particularly in the peripheral countries of the european union, can raise anxiety and concern about the future of the community. therefore, the aid to access finance for the sector in question appears justified. because only by creating new jobs can europe emerge from the economic crisis with a strong hand.
in writing. - the sme sector has been going through a difficult period recently. the shifting of production and the progressive deindustrialisation of europe are reducing the number of orders and weakening the trade and intermediation sector, which are the driving force behind the whole sector. moreover, the crisis has deprived smes of previously saved financial resources. that is why the union must send a clear message today, a signal of support. the provision that 20% of the funding from horizon 2020 is to be allocated to boosting innovation and smes is certainly one of them. i think that's a good thing to do.
madam president! i would like to support the report by mr schwab. although parliament has already called twice for a deeper single market, the european institutions are still not doing enough. there are still a number of cumbersome administrative burdens. the fewer obstacles entrepreneurs and jobseekers face, the faster and more efficiently the community market will develop. i would remind you that this is a key mechanism for economic growth, which translates directly into jobs. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new legislation. a more efficient rate of transposition would bring significant savings. full implementation of the services directive alone is estimated to generate a gain of 2.6% of eu gdp. the alignment of legislation in this area is beneficial for national economies, competitiveness and consumers. the current disparities imply difficulties for entrepreneurs seeking to raise capital. the single market is conducive to the development of innovation and it is therefore necessary to regulate the free flow of knowledge. scientific exchange, openness to inspiration and the universality and accessibility of achievements, especially in the field of modern technologies, are essential for raising the standard of living in the countries of the union. the increasingly widespread exchange of goods and services on the internet is a stimulus to the economy. the effect of moving a business to the internet is to increase its area and productivity. the elimination of barriers on this plane should be intensified.
madam president, i do not share the views of my predecessor and i am not at all despairing of european policies on this matter. of course, we have to face the crisis together, and the stability and growth pact must help us to do so. we must get out of the crisis. to this end, investment policies are extremely important. i must also say that growth policies did not wait until 2012 to be put in place, since as early as 2010, in the will we drew up for this europe 2020 policy, we already talked about building growth. but the real problem is the return to work or the fight against the weakening of the employment of the employees who are working today. i would like to draw your attention, in the european semester policy, to the fact that we must be extremely careful in supporting the european social fund. as rapporteur, i would draw your attention to the fact that the european social fund is the political lever for the return to employment of the most vulnerable. that is why i am advocating that we should all be mobilized, that 25% of the cohesion funds should be directed towards social cohesion, otherwise we will miss the target. i must therefore say that if we are to combat the social crisis, if we are to invest and stimulate growth, it is through the social fund that we must preserve these policies and that 25% of the cohesion funds must be allocated to social policies. we could not possibly pursue policies which support employment in europe and our efforts would be useless if we did not have this firm and determined will.
madam president! we know from the reports, analyses and observations in the regions that as the crisis deepens, poverty levels and various forms of social exclusion increase. increasingly, these problems are affecting working people as well. the situation is particularly dire for young people. the unemployment rate reached 20% and in some countries as high as 50%. many economists are critical of the union's implementation of crisis management methods that focus, and often limit, to reducing debt and budget deficits. not only do they fail to deliver the expected results, but they also exacerbate social problems, especially among the most vulnerable. with regard to the european semester, it is worth noting that both rapporteurs, from the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on monetary affairs, note the negative impact of consolidation on economic growth. interestingly, even the monetary committee recommends delaying and limiting the fiscal consolidation path. i think it is high time that the next six-monthly guidelines give top priority to job creation. cohesion policy is the tool that makes this possible.
madam president! the internal market has enormous potential, but it is not yet exploited, and it is our task to tap into that potential. the single market is a means of improving competitiveness and achieving economic growth in the union. the single market rules are already quite extensive and the main emphasis should therefore be firmly on their enforcement and implementation. unfortunately, the data show that member states are far behind in transposing eu law. insufficient implementation of the rules results in the creation of barriers to the internal market and the failure to exploit its potential. i welcome the commission's efforts to improve the governance of the internal market, but i agree with the rapporteur that they should be even more ambitious, especially in terms of coordination or the introduction of the 'single market test'. priorities for implementation and monitoring are also needed. while it is clear that all legislation needs to be properly implemented, the focus for the immediate future should be on issues of importance to the economy and overall growth. i think it is a very good way to look at the internal market in the context of the european semester, because it will make it easier to identify the obstacles still faced in this market and to monitor progress. i'm sure the individual approach is a huge factor. each member state should be looked at individually and solutions tailored to the problems encountered. it will be more effective to define recommendations for each member state separately, as this approach will better highlight the real problems.
madam president! the high and rising rate of unemployment in the european union, especially among young people, is a very worrying phenomenon and requires mobilization and action by all actors involved. the measures taken so far are not producing the visible and expected results. a coherent approach is needed, combining both smart fiscal consolidation that does not jeopardise investment in future growth, and sound macroeconomic policies and active employment strategies that ensure social cohesion. the fontagné report lists a number of actions that member states should take to actively involve themselves in the fight against unemployment and job creation. i would like to draw particular attention to those activities which are aimed at young people. i believe that a range of tax breaks and business start-up aid can be an opportunity for young entrepreneurs who want to use their talents and make a living from them. support for smes will undoubtedly also indirectly help young people. research shows that jobs that could be filled by young people with little work experience are created primarily within existing enterprises. reform of labour markets, which will also include improving the efficiency of public employment services and developing a system of individual career guidance, will be an important element in supporting jobseekers. in conclusion, i would like to mention once again the fundamental element that will contribute to the actual integration of people into the labour market, namely effective cooperation between employers, governments and educational institutions.
the european semester, the process of informing member states of draft national budgets and subsequent recommendations by the european commission, is an important element of the economic governance of the european union. i agree with the previous speakers that we should be careful not to forget the common market in this management. the report which will be put to the vote tomorrow aims to make the management of the european single market an important part of the semester. the semester should contain clear recommendations for deepening the common market and better implementing the directives. it should also contain recommendations for member states on how to do this better. all this is necessary so that citizens and businesses can feel firsthand that the european project benefits us all, because the single market concerns us all. and that's why it's so important that it's not missing from national budgets. and member states should adopt a broader perspective than just their own. it is worth considering, when designing the budget, whether the so-called gilding of the provisions of the directive does not bring more harm than good. does the addition of obligations to undertakings in national legislation going beyond the directive help or hinder competition in the common market, a market of 500 million citizens? a good test of this will be the implementation of the consumer directive in the member states, which should take place by the end of the year. and i hope that all member states will succeed in keeping the spirit of this directive, and the spirit is to simplify consumer law and to contribute to increasing sales, to ensuring the safety of buyers, especially online. this requires a more european approach. i wish the member states and the european commission courage and a profound european approach to this matter.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs lope fontagné, for her report. high unemployment, especially among young people, is one of the most serious consequences of the ongoing crisis in europe. therefore, action to increase employment should be a priority and an integral part of member states' strategies. i believe that the 2013 policy guidelines should focus on promoting entrepreneurship and supporting the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. legislation should be introduced to reduce labour costs and to allow for flexible forms of employment. invest in high-quality training and traineeships for young people, leading to the skills that employers are looking for. to achieve this, i look forward to closer cooperation between national governments and parliaments.
to combat the economic crisis and the resulting unemployment, it is not enough to take sensible action in the fiscal field, nor is it enough to design the budgets of individual countries in a sensible way. it is necessary to take measures to limit the over-regulation of the economies of individual countries of the european union. unfortunately, the efforts of the european commission and the european parliament sometimes backfire. their intentions are noble - they are about improving the functioning of the economy, simplifying - but unfortunately this often leads to completely different effects, to greater complications, to much higher operating costs, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. this has negative consequences, which is why we need to do everything we can to simplify the economy and reduce over-regulation. it will also make a significant contribution to the positive development of the european economy.
in writing. the annual growth survey aims to identify economic priorities for 2013 and marks the beginning of the european semester procedure, which is intended to contribute to better coordination of member states' economic policies so that their objectives are in line with the stability and growth pact. the main message of the growth analysis is that while ad hoc anti-crisis measures are starting to deliver positive effects in terms of deficit reduction and financial market sentiment, continued reforms are essential to achieve sustainable growth and job creation in the long term. the five priorities identified by the commission as key to overcoming the crisis and restoring growth, namely diversified and smart fiscal consolidation; restoring normal lending to the economy; promoting growth and competitiveness; tackling unemployment; and modernising public administration, should be positively assessed. at the same time, in the report prepared by the econ committee, we call on the commission to put forward concrete proposals in the report to be presented to the european council, in addition to the strategy for implementing sustainable fiscal discipline, to promote private investment, to improve the efficiency of tax systems and to create jobs. the need for structural labour market reforms to increase the flexibility needed to effectively mitigate shocks and reduce youth unemployment by better matching skills to labour demand has become particularly evident in recent times.
mr. chairman, please! as we stand on the threshold of the 16th conference of the parties to the washington convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), no one needs to be convinced of the role that cites plays in protecting endangered species by controlling and restricting international trade in them. the resolution of the european parliament to the participants in the bangkok conference should be welcomed all the more. the us proposal to move the polar bear from appendix ii to the more restrictive appendix i of the cites convention certainly deserves special attention in the legal act presented. the reason for this is undoubtedly that the bear population is threatened by climate change - as my colleague said earlier - and the associated loss of habitat, and the extra extraction of bears through hunting certainly does not help the shrinking populations. the inclusion in annex i means that international trade in various bear parts, such as leather, bone, ornaments and souvenirs, is prohibited, which may contribute to the reduction of the so-called harvesting quotas, as by reducing the supply we may also cause the demand for these products to decrease. the proposal to increase the cites conservation regime and to transfer certain species of turtles, fish and whitetip sharks is also worth supporting.
i have received one draft resolution tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 6 february 2013 at 11.30 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by monika hohlmeier, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the guidelines for the 2014 budget procedure, section i – european parliament, section ii – council, section iv – court of justice, section v – court of auditors, section vi – european economic and social committee, section vii – committee of the regions, section viii – european ombudsman, section ix – european data protection supervisor, section x – european external action service (2013/2003(bud)) (a7-0020/2013).
on behalf of the ppe group. the budget of the european parliament and the other institutions is a very small part of the budget of the european union, but there is certainly room for savings. in times of crisis, each of us must cut back on our spending. this also applies to the european parliament itself. it should be made clear that over the last few years the ep's budget has been reduced in real terms. we have achieved this by reorganising parliamentary work, in particular by cutting travel costs, by reducing the duration and number of business trips, by increasing the use of videoconferencing and other similar tools, and by optimising translation services. to give two examples: we have frozen all the benefits for members at the 2011 level until the end of the current term. contrary to what is often reported, we are not sparing the parliamentary administration either. for example, staff travel allowances have not been revalued since 2007. we are planning further savings over the coming year, particularly in the area of translation, but this is very important without prejudice to the principle of multilingualism, which is very important in this parliament. similar activities - which should also be emphasised - are taking place in other eu institutions. however, i would like to stress that cuts in administrative budgets must not jeopardise the basic activities of the european institutions and, above all, must not lead to breaches of eu law. the savings must be made in such a way that, first of all, money is not wasted at all, but that the activities which bring european added value are not jeopardised. i would urge that the cuts in the parliamentary administration and other institutions do not have a negative impact on current and future eu staff from the new member states. it is clear to me that their level of employment and occupational position still do not correspond to the population potential of the countries that joined the european union in 2004 and after 2004.
mr. chairman, please! we had french president françois hollande in the house today, and he spoke about the future of the european union and the euro area, how to overcome the economic crisis and the union's budget for 2014-2020. we are now debating the guidelines for the 2014 budgetary procedure. the crisis is everywhere and we must cut or even freeze administrative budgets with iron consequence. we must be in solidarity with member states in difficult economic and budgetary situations so that they can meet their obligations and make the necessary development investments without compromising the quality of their basic institutional activities. cuts are necessary, but they must be based on a thorough analysis of budgetary expenditure in previous years. the number of new posts, the level of salaries, the purchase of further buildings, the maintenance of two plenary seats for parliament and the european external action service should be the areas that should be the first to attract our attention.
mr. chairman, please! the report we are discussing today makes a number of justified demands for reducing the costs of the eu institutions and administration. and it's good that these different kinds of solutions are focused on the european parliament, which is where we are today, where we are debating this today. of course, we should make the most of the opportunities that new technologies are giving us, such as teleconferencing and the wider use of tablets instead of printing on paper. i also fully support the idea of translation based on real demand. this will not only make life easier for translators but will also surely improve the quality of their work. however, one very important element is missing from the report: the clear emphasis on the impact of the monthly trips to strasbourg on parliament's budget. we are talking about savings of some 29 million euros a year thanks to structural changes, but why not say that if we had done away with the plenary sessions outside brussels, from strasbourg, we would have saved about seven times that amount, or 1.5 billion euros, a year? i think in the context of the eu's negotiations on a new budget, it would be something we should seriously consider.
mr. chairman, please! of course, the budget of the european union in general - and in this parliament - should reflect the economic situation to some extent, but at the same time we must remember that the crisis requires the capacity to cope with it. the citizens expect us to be able to bring about a quick exit from the crisis. so we need smart and effective action. a balance is needed between reasonableness and cost-effectiveness and the ability to make good decisions. we must be very careful about expecting these increased tasks to be accomplished with fewer resources. last year i had the pleasure of being rapporteur on the discharge for the european parliament's budget and i am aware - as few others have been - that, step by step, systematically, efficiency and productivity are being increased in this parliament, the unit cost of individual operations is being reduced, savings are being sought where they can be found. and for that, i give you my thanks.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the fact that the 2014 budget will be important and special for at least two reasons. first, it is the first year of the 2014-2020 budget. so far, no final agreement has been reached on the budget details for these years. so you have to look for ways to save, but you have to do it wisely. i agree with what professor bogusław liberadzki said on this subject. we have to be sensible here. but there's another very important thing. in 2014, there will be elections to the parliament and there will certainly be changes in the parliament. and every change has the added cost of making it.
mr. chairman, please! today we have had the french president françois hollande here, who has shown and testified that if we want to demand savings, we should start with ourselves, and he has introduced savings of the order of 30%, cutting the salaries of ministers. there has been a lot of talk here today about the dire consequences that are affecting all those who feel the crisis, who are suffering the consequences. i think it would be a beautiful gesture, symbolically, if the european parliament too were to introduce this kind of austerity - a cut in its own salaries, say, by 30% or that 1⁄3. but it cannot be organised without the involvement of the largest political groups, and that is why i would appeal to vice-president jacques protasiewicz, who is leading our discussions today, to ask the ppe group, and perhaps also to president martin schulz, to take the initiative of reducing the salaries of meps by, for example, 30% as in france, or 1⁄3, in order to make a gesture of solidarity. these salaries in france are not an important part of the french budget, but they are an important gesture of solidarity towards those who are losing their jobs, who are not working, who are living worse and worse.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 6 february 2013. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. – decreasing our expenditure is one way to show solidarity with our citizens during these times of financial instability. it is now agreed by most leaders that austerity and cuts alone are insufficient to tackle the crisis, and that more attention should be placed on measures to stimulate growth. in this respect i welcome the 2014 budgetary guidelines, which continue to follow the approach of the previous year, trying to strike a balance between austerity and growth. the report calls on parliament to identify more areas where structural changes can be introduced, making our organisation more efficient and less costly. yet it fails to mention one area where a structural reform could lead to real savings: namely, parliament’s multiple working places. the financial cost of maintaining three places of work is estimated at eur 180 million per year. the additional cost of maintaining the working places in luxembourg and strasbourg is set at eur 148 million. these figures represent potential annual savings that could be reinvested instead in programmes for boosting job creation, expanding research and development, and other schemes to help us overcome the current crisis and restore economic growth in europe.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by raffaele baldassarre, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on corporate social responsibility: accountable, transparent and responsible business behaviour and sustainable growth (com(2011)0681 – 2012/2098(ini)) (a7-0017/2013), and– the report by richard howitt, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on corporate social responsibility: promoting society’s interests and a route to sustainable and inclusive recovery com(2011)0681 – 2012/2097(ini)) (a7-0023/2013).
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to have had the opportunity today to debate two excellent reports on the subject of corporate social responsibility, and i congratulate the two rapporteurs, mr baldassarre and mr howitt, on their work. the adoption of these resolutions is the positive conclusion of a debate which we started more than a year ago with the communication from the european commission. it was october 2011, and it had already been formally accepted by the council. the adoption of the resolutions before this house today will also send a strong signal that the european institutions are on the same page on this important subject: the commission, the council and parliament have one vote. europe needs an ambitious policy in this area, that of social responsibility, because it is in the interests of companies, citizens and investors and also in the interests of the proper functioning of our social market economy. socially responsible enterprises are also the most competitive in the medium and long term, create quality jobs and are more innovative and also generate higher levels of confidence in the economy. i agree with mr baldassarre that the new definition of csr proposed by the commission overcomes the old opposition between voluntary and compulsory action, and brings greater coherence with major policy developments at national, european and global levels. while we recognize the role that certain legislative instruments can and should play in promoting csr in specific cases, we do not believe that legislation is the preferred policy instrument for all aspects of csr. as far as small and mediumsized enterprises are concerned, the commission wishes to avoid any unnecessary increase in administrative burdens. for example, we have rightly avoided proposing a new set of principles at european level, preferring instead to rely on the existing set-up at global level. our policy takes full account of the specificities of small and mediumsized enterprises and the action plan we are putting in place includes specific measures to support the social responsibility of smes. we know that this type of support is most effective when it is provided by those closest to the business. we therefore call on all member states and regional authorities to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the european structural funds. the commission's communication also reaffirms our commitment and my own commitment to present a legislative proposal on the dissemination of social and environmental information by companies. a clear disclosure obligation at union level is necessary to improve both the quality and the quantity of information disseminated, as is strongly requested by investors and other stakeholders. it is obviously essential to develop a quality proposal, i.e. one which gives companies the flexibility to disclose the information most relevant to their specific situation and one which does not impose new disclosure obligations on small and mediumsized enterprises. i think it is unnecessary to add that the commission will be analysing carefully the ideas that will come out of this debate and which are contained in the two texts that parliament is about to approve. i believe that we have proposed a balanced policy in the interests of business and other social interests. we remain committed to the multilateral approach which is characterised by corporate social responsibility in our union and we want to reaffirm europe's ambition to lead the global debate on this issue, much as we do with regard to environmental policy. at the same time, however, we are keen to ensure that companies have the flexibility to meet their social responsibility obligations in a way that reflects their specific situations. i believe that this debate represents an important step towards the final objective and confirms once again the strength of the link between the european parliament and the commission. this time, fortunately, the council is also in line with our positions, and that gives us hope. it is also a positive message that we are giving to our fellow citizens because when all the institutions speak with one voice, we build confidence in the half a billion citizens who are watching carefully the work we do.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. - mr president! - what are you doing? i welcome the reports prepared by my colleagues, mr baldassari and mr richard howitt. i am also very pleased with the remarks made by commissioner tajani on corporate social responsibility in response to both the european commission's communication and the un guidelines on business and human rights. i would like to point out first of all that the global economic crisis is also caused by the fact that certain principles of social responsibility have been violated. secondly, the restoration of economic growth - the aim of the europe 2020 strategy - also requires the restoration of mutual trust: public, business, national and european institutions. thirdly, we need to strike a balance between effectively promoting standards and sharing good practices in corporate social responsibility at union level and in relations with third countries, and avoiding new, rigid and excessive burdens, in particular for small and medium-sized enterprises. fourthly, it is in the interest of european companies to promote corporate social responsibility internationally, particularly where we are dealing with, for example, violations of human rights, employment standards and also violations of certain international legal orders. fifthly, the european union and the member states can use public procurement, strategic investments, export credits and access to the community market through trade agreements as effective instruments of influence. sixthly, i would like to highlight the role played by the important partners, including national human rights institutions. the next conference with civil rights advocates from the eastern partnership countries will be an example. and finally, mr. chairman, i will say that corporate social responsibility pays off, as exemplified by the respect index on the warsaw stock exchange, which shows that socially responsible companies have higher quotations, higher profits than those that are in the group of the largest companies.
mr. chairman, please! corporate social responsibility is the voluntary, over and above the minimum legal requirements, incorporation of social and environmental issues into business activities and relationships with stakeholders. the basic premise of corporate social responsibility is that business behaves responsibly and ethically towards the social groups it affects, with the greatest possible respect for the environment. that's the definition, and i suggest we stick with that definition. the added value of csr is its flexibility - companies can adapt their plans and ideas in this area to their business strategies, thus making an even more positive impact on the environment in which they operate. i am therefore pleased that the reports we are discussing today are primarily about encouraging the integration of csr into business strategies, highlighting the many ways in which it can be applied and the benefits it brings to both sides. at the same time, i believe that too much legislative intervention in this area would be inappropriate, given the steadily increasing percentage of companies that are themselves interested in this responsibility. let's encourage, not discourage! let's not force it! i also think we have to finally get rid of the assumption that the activities of entrepreneurs, both small and large, are always against the interests of the local community and endanger the environment. we are not demonizing european business. practice shows that entrepreneurs do not need to be persuaded or coerced to conduct their business on the basis of the principles of transparency and sustainability. the principle is that the more trust a business has, the more profits it makes, and the corporate social responsibility strategy is proving to be a very good example of this.
mr. chairman, please! the so-called 'revised european strategy 2011-2014 for corporate social responsibility' published by the commission in 2011 is a step in the right direction to strengthen and rebuild citizens' trust in european economies. the commission's proposed definition of corporate responsibility for its impact on society is balanced and reflects well the relationship between the voluntary and the mandatory approach to the issue. i agree with the rapporteur that a debate on corporate social responsibility is necessary in a broader context, including the discussion on future regulatory measures. citizens are counting on clear and transparent rules of conduct in the business world to revive a declining economy, boost employee engagement and consumer confidence. as a consequence, they may also contribute to the reduction of unemployment in europe. special rules should therefore be developed for smes, which represent over 90% of the european entrepreneurial community, to encourage them to engage more in social responsibility without additional administrative or financial barriers.
mr. chairman, please! the introduction of csr principles deserves respect and support. it is an important factor in the positive actions of enterprises in their social and environmental environments. it should be borne in mind, however, that at the declarative level some of the companies and enterprises may very well use the good practices and standards which we refer to in our declarations, but on the other hand at the practical level they are forgotten. the best example of this is the experience of recent years in poland, when large retail chains with a recognized brand, entering the market, avoided paying taxes through creative accounting, while ruining small and small trade. examples include large pharmaceutical companies that engaged in corrupt practices, even budgeting for corruption, and their sales representatives bribing doctors and hospital directors, with negative consequences. in short, these activities should be encouraged in the area of social responsibility, but also be aware of the legal standards that must accompany them.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i've heard all kinds of opinions. i think the proposal is very moderate. first, let's remember that the noise level emitted by a car is 80 decibels. we're talking about a reduction of a few decibels. and spread out in time. it's not true that it's dangerous for the industry. it's a kind of substitution: if the engine costs more, we save on the protective screens. it is also worth noting - and this is a very welcome development - that the commission has also taken measures to reduce rail noise, so these measures are fairly balanced: reducing noise in freight transport by rail, reducing noise in cars. therefore, annex 3 proposed by the rapporteur is unfavourable in my view. the commission's annex 3 was better because we are able to make our industry more competitive by making better cars, cars that are more socially acceptable, that are healthy, that are good for all of us.
in writing. it is understandable that the common good and the health of citizens throughout the european union should be sought by limiting the noise emissions of motor vehicles used for broadly defined transport purposes, especially commercial ones. however, in developing new legal solutions, we need to balance the achievable social benefits - in terms of health - of noise reduction with the possible costs that each of us would have to bear if new noise standards were technologically difficult to achieve and would require expenditure that outweighs the benefits. in introducing new legislation, we must also bear in mind that we must exclude from the proposed noise regulations all those motor vehicles which are used for motor sports. therefore, i ask both the commission (the applicant) and the environment commissioner to make a clear statement for the future that the new noise emission limits will not apply to canoeing and other motor sports.
mr president, minister, commissioner, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. the debate on the negotiations which will begin tomorrow, the next phase of the negotiations on the union's multiannual budget, was de facto launched yesterday with the speech by the president of the french republic. and i have to tell you that one particular thread in yesterday's discussion has been very troubling to me. a kind of ping-pong appeared yesterday and today, with accusations of who is more in the council, which governments - right, left or liberal - are pushing for further cuts in the eu budget. what worries me, one day before the next round of negotiations, is that in these ambitious disputes, these image disputes, who wins and who loses in these negotiations, or worse in these disputes, in the quarrels over small details, the bigger picture and the real stakes that we are playing in these negotiations will be lost. because what matters most to many ordinary europeans about the idea of a common europe is the sense of solidarity between nations and their leaders and the will to close the still huge differences in living standards between the poor and the rich regions of the european union. and the guarantee is a generous budget, especially for cohesion policy. these funds also guarantee the investment we so badly need in times of crisis. in many member states, the share of eu funds in public investment exceeds 50% and often reaches close to 70%. long-term planning is the basis for these investments, which are saving these regions from an even greater crisis. i therefore appeal to the eu leaders to exercise prudence, responsibility and to make wise decisions which are acceptable to this house and not rejected by it. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8)).)
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. you spoke, mr president, of the principle of solidarity which should guide the european union countries and the union as a whole in making decisions on financing and all important policies, including, as i understand it, agricultural policy. how do you explain the situation where poland will pay 40 billion euros to the eu between 2014 and 2020, while polish farmers will only receive 90% of the average eu subsidies in 2020? in a situation where the market is one, open, polish agricultural producers have to compete with those who have much higher subsidies. how are they supposed to do that, mr. messenger?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'll send the buffalo! we are citizens of the same country and we see how much polish agriculture and the polish countryside have gained from membership of the european union. market opening, direct subsidies (to different costs of production of agricultural products) are already - after eight years of being in the european union - a clear and undeniable asset and benefit for the polish countryside and polish farmers, and this process will continue as the level of direct subsidies will systematically level off.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i wanted to ask your opinion on the following matter. and there's a thought that's been coming up more and more. yesterday, mr cohn-bendit, today mr verhofstadt and my colleagues from the alde group said that perhaps the multiannual financial framework is not so important. let us put this matter aside and think about it. the key is the annual budget. let's start working on that. my colleague verhofstadt went so far as to say that multiannual planning is like multiannual planning in the former soviet union. i would like to say that the annual budgets create the enormous uncertainty you have mentioned and do not provide that certainty for cohesion measures, for the major european projects. what do you think about that?
mr president, commissioner, minister, i have to ask you to stop this. the next european council will largely determine the direction the european union will take by the end of 2020. will it be economic growth and job creation, or stagnation and further job decline? president van rompuy proposes that the 2014-2020 budget be a budget of moderation. however, this moderation must not lead to the conservatism and apparent savings that some member states seem to be aiming at. citizens today need positive signals to rebuild trust in the european institutions. the adoption of a multiannual financial framework at a level that will allow the ambitious objectives of the europe 2020 strategy to be achieved and a return to growth can certainly be a signal.
the upcoming european council will focus on the union's 2014-2020 budget. in the face of a crisis, understanding motivates better spending and saving. however, they may not concern strategic and key funds such as the cohesion fund. drastic cuts in this sector would send a clear signal that the older eu member states want to plug the budgetary gap at the expense of the newly joined member states. it is not only countries like poland and hungary that are losing out, but it will also undermine confidence in the european union as a whole and in the principles of solidarity that it has previously adopted. many are already wondering if the european commission's decision in december to withhold funds for road construction in poland is the first step in a strategy that some countries have already planned. if the cohesion fund cuts for the new member states, including poland, were to be seen as a compromise, then they would certainly not see it as a compromise but as a compromise of the union.
in writing. the next european council will be very important for our european future. the financial framework that is the subject of such emotional disputes and treatments is both small and large. yes, it is a paradox. small, because in purely financial terms, they represent only 1% of the european union's gdp. the european council in strasbourg on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the future of the european union, which calls for the european union to be a "common european space". i am optimistic and confident that the leaders will reach a reasonable agreement. the only thing that's troubling is that so many opposition politicians would wish for the summit to fail. they can't see any further than their own short-term and particular political interest. all they care about is the next election and anything they can do to hurt the current government. this is discouraging because it is a betrayal of the very essence of politics - the search for the common good. they are destroying the values that underpin european integration, such as solidarity. i am convinced that the citizens are not blind, and in their wisdom they can see who is looking for the common good and who is looking for cheap applause.
in writing. we have high hopes for the summit on 7 and 8 february. after the failure last november, it is now high time to agree on the eu budget for 2014-2020. this is the budget that all europeans are waiting for. they want to see the eu take action to get back on the path to economic growth. the eu budget, which is over 90% investment-based, is certainly a tool to bring us closer to this. it is particularly important not to reduce the resources for the cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, which provide a high added value. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the programme. for example, president van rompuy's so-called second proposal last november provided for a cut in the cap pillar ii (i.e. rural development policy) for poland of almost €3 billion, almost 25% of the current allocation! unfortunately, unofficial information suggests that president van rompuy will still propose further cuts, up to €15 billion, compared to his last proposal, which was already €75 billion lower than the european commission's original proposal. the question is, where will the heads of state and government cut? president van rompuy lists research, development and education among his priorities. but it seems he may be lonely.
in writing. our priority is an ambitious budget for europe, especially in the current crisis, because we see such an ambitious budget as an effective instrument to stimulate economic growth in the eu. we must also bear in mind the importance of cohesion policy as an element of this budget, whose funds are essentially investment funds. the cut should not be made at the expense of the new member states, whose development benefits the community as a whole. but first and foremost, we must ensure that the 2014-2020 budget is adopted. of course, not at any price and in accordance with the demands of parliament. failure to reach an agreement would be bad news for a europe in crisis.
in writing. the financial crisis of 2008-2009 began and ended shortly after the start of the implementation of the eu budget for 2007-2013. sadly, few people thought that the crisis would spread to other countries and that the european union would be in for a long time. thus, few experts and politicians have been preoccupied with the impending problems of agreeing on the next financial perspective. the alternative of 'saving or spending public money' is very much on the agenda now, and this is particularly evident before the council meeting. to begin with, the eu budget is not impressive from the point of view of all 27 economies combined. that's just over 1% of the gross national income of the entire community. for comparison, the level of fiscalisation (the ratio of public sector expenditure to gdp) in the eu was close to 50% in 2011. in poland, the rate was 43,6%. but as it turns out, even for such a small sum, the fight can take months, especially in times of crisis and a europe-wide trend towards saving. the amount of the funds awarded will be important, but so will their purpose. experts are increasingly talking about the need to limit subsidies and subsidies to repayable financial instruments such as loans or guarantees. the issue of vat clearance in eu-funded projects, which in polish reality represents a significant part of the costs, also remains unknown.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. the united states remains one of the world's most important producers and a key economic partner of europe. as a result of the enlargement of the customs union following the accession of bulgaria and romania, the commercial rights of this country have been slightly overridden. in line with the international rules of the world trade organisation, of which the union is a member, we are obliged to eliminate disadvantages in foreign trade. the restoration of the united states' trading rights with the new community countries is beneficial to all parties.
in writing. - with the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu, the customs union had to be extended. in accordance with wto rules, the eu has committed to enter into negotiations with wto members with negotiating rights on concessional letters from any of the acceding countries. these negotiations were undertaken with the aim of agreeing a mutually satisfactory countervailing duty to compensate for the increase in the related duty rates and the resulting material injury. such compensation shall be due where the adoption of the eu external tariff system results in an increase in rates above the level to which the acceding country has committed itself under the wto. the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with the countries entitled to compensation. negotiations with the united states resulted in a draft agreement in the form of an exchange of letters, which was initialled by the eu on 21 december 2011 and by the us on 17 february 2012. the products covered by the eu-us compensation agreement are mainly poultry and pork meat and food products. the draft resolution could help to improve trade relations with the united states. under this provision, wto members benefit from countries with a higher rate than the eu tariff, while countries with lower rates are compensated by the eu for the difference. i believe that such measures will help to improve trade, which can be one of the factors that positively affect economic growth.
in writing. - i supported the report by mrs pervenche berès on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. i believe that the development of appropriate labour market policies, with particular emphasis on combating unemployment, is a key challenge for the european union and the member states. the financial crisis, the deterioration of the economy, the alarming level of unemployment, the threat of social exclusion and poverty for millions of europeans are the greatest pains we have to deal with. it is therefore necessary to develop long-term strategies for employment policies, creating new jobs, especially for young people, who have been most affected by the negative economic trends of recent years. it is also necessary to prepare appropriate programmes for other groups at risk of labour market disadvantages, i.e. women, the elderly, the disabled, rural and small town residents. i hope that the efforts made both within the eu and by the member states will contribute to reducing unemployment, promoting a high level of skills and training for workers and combating poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. − in terms of employment policy, member states should focus all their efforts on priority areas, including raising the employment rate and reducing unemployment, especially among young people. i believe that it is worthwhile to improve the efficiency of education and training systems in all areas and to develop national reform programmes and their implementation. that is why i voted in favour of the pervenche berès report on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states.
in writing. − the european union's development objectives are set out in the europe 2020 strategy, which is based on closer coordination of economic policies, with a particular focus on the key areas for action to boost europe's potential for sustainable growth and competitiveness. these objectives are pursued, inter alia, by the guidelines on employment policy, which are intended to facilitate the coordination of member states' policies. the integration of the guidelines is intended to ensure that policies at national and union level fully contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives. i am positive that the number of guidelines is small. this ensures their consistency and transparency. i highly value the guidelines, as well as the whole europe 2020 strategy. the inclusion of recommendations on combating poverty and social exclusion, reducing structural unemployment and improving the quality of the education system in the guidelines is particularly commendable. i hope that the polish government will follow the above guidelines, which i consider to be of priority importance, when drawing up its national reform programme. we cannot lose sight of the social dimension of the fight against the crisis. in view of the above, i have decided to support the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states.
in writing. - there is no doubt that europe is in crisis. this is evidenced by the unemployment rate, which is the highest in 10 years and currently stands at 9.6%. analyses carried out by the european parliament indicate that the main employment sectors will be services and transport. the new strategies include increasing the employment rate and reducing unemployment, developing a skilled labour force that meets labour market needs, promoting quality employment and lifelong learning, improving the efficiency of education and training systems at all levels and increasing higher education enrolment, and tackling poverty and social exclusion. unfortunately, the common guidelines will not help us to understand the problem of unemployment better and to find effective solutions. i believe that there is no one size fits all approach to the european economy, because each country is different from the others. the fact that the guidelines proposed by brussels may work in spain, for example, does not necessarily mean that they must have the same effect in poland or another member state. member states should therefore pursue their own employment policies and respond as quickly as possible to changes in the labour market. i'm against such regulations.
in writing. - the fight against unemployment in europe is the largest and longest in recent times. i think it should remain a matter for the member states to decide. but the european union also has its own importance and important task. this task is primarily to reduce the recklessly imposed administrative burdens and climate and energy policies leading to the deindustrialisation of europe. analysts estimate that over 250,000 people could lose their jobs in poland alone because of such records.
in writing. − member states have exclusive competence in deciding on the pricing and reimbursement of medicinal products within their public health insurance systems. however, to ensure a proper functioning of the single market, pricing and reimbursement measures must be free of discrimination against imported medicinal products and based on objective and verifiable criteria which are independent from the origin of the products. the existing directive has never been amended since its adoption and its provisions reflect the pharmaceutical market conditions which prevailed more than twenty years ago and which have fundamentally changed, especially with the emergence of generic medicines providing cheaper versions of existing products. in parallel, the constant rise in public expenditure on pharmaceuticals in the last decades has encouraged member states to invent more complex and innovative pricing and reimbursement systems over time. the proposal therefore aims at adapting the directive to the current pharmaceutical environment while preserving its core foundations. for this reason, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − medicines and all other medical products for human use should be subject to appropriate controls, both in terms of their quality and availability. availability is to be understood in a broad sense: physical, i.e. the supply of a sufficient quantity in places that can be reached or reached, or economic. today, we are dealing with affordability, which is transparency in regulating pricing, so that medicines and medical products are affordable to everyone who needs them.
in writing. − union legislation requires that a marketing authorisation be granted by the competent union or national authorities before any medicinal product can be placed on the market. i don't think there's any doubt that life and health are one of the most important values for any human being. any medicinal product authorised in the eu should be available to patients in all member states. the prolongation of the pricing and reimbursement procedures contributes to delays in the placing of medicinal products on the market. this can be particularly detrimental in the case of innovative measures. this may result in loss of life or even a shortened life. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (hereinafter 'the agency') is based on the principle of equal treatment for all medicinal products.
in writing. - the european union should not fix any prices for medicinal products from above. i understand the need for a common market, but the prices of such basic products should be regulated by the market, not by an eu directive. at the same time, the amendments tabled contained many valuable comments which i supported in my vote. those minimum procedural requirements should also ensure legal certainty and transparency for the competent authorities in their decision-making on the pricing of medicinal products and their reimbursement by universal health coverage schemes, an important statement that points to a common problem among member states, namely the compliance with pharmaceutical lobbyists. in my country, corruption and inaccuracies in the procurement of medicines and the list of medicines that are reimbursed have been exposed on many occasions.
in writing. − the european fisheries sector produces around 6.4 million tonnes of fish each year. the fisheries and processing industries employ 350 000 people. this shows the importance of the sector and its impact on other important areas such as the economy, employment and the environment. i voted in favour of the report on the common fisheries policy. we cannot ignore the problems in this sector, but i believe that the measures we are taking are the right step to overcome the difficulties. i hope that the solutions proposed will contribute to the development of this sector, the sustainable exploitation of marine resources, the effective protection of the marine environment, and the security of the food supply.
in writing. - we have adopted an important report on the future of the common fisheries policy. the changes in this area would take effect from the beginning of 2014. the main objective of the regulation is to create the conditions for the recovery of fish stocks by 2020 so that fisheries in europe become a sustainable sector. the measures adopted provide for greater protection of marine resources. the renewed fish stocks will generate more catches, so in the long term the expected trend should lead to the creation of new jobs in the sector.
in writing. - despite the many steps taken in the past to reform the sector, the problems relating to the common fisheries policy have been resolved over the years in a few major blocks. the main complications were the lack of environmental sustainability, due to the problem of 'overfishing', the vulnerability of fishing fleets to 'external shocks' (even if high fuel prices), the inability to achieve relative economic stability, the lack of social sustainability (the sector has ceased to be a source of attractive jobs for potential new generations of fishermen) and the complexity of the legal framework, which in turn closes the loop and makes it difficult to achieve the sustainable natural environment mentioned above. i look forward to the future of this sector as i consider the changes proposed by the project presented. the introduction of precise regulations addressing each of these issues should lead to the comprehensive systematisation of the cfp as from 2017 this date represents a clear sign of hope for this sector, which is still in an internal impasse.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. this report is very important because it sets out the framework of the future cfp policy for the next 10 years, and will have a big effect on fishermen all across europe. i believe that it is critical that we find concrete ways to stop overfishing. there are a few ways that we can help to achieve this goal. eu vessels fishing outside eu waters must meet the same requirements as boats in europe, and fisheries agreements with third countries should only cover fish stocks with a surplus of fish. we also need to find a balanced approach with regards to the number of controls carried out in eu waters. it is absolutely crucial to sustainable fishing that the control system is reformed to take into account specific characteristics and sizes of different european fleets.
in writing. - the common fisheries policy is an important and sensitive issue. important for the food balance and the biological balance of the seas and oceans. it is a sensitive, even delicate issue because it is about access to resources, about limiting access and about being willing to share resources with others. we've received hundreds of emails with suggestions, requests and expectations. i admit that the emails helped us make our decision in the vote. we have adopted a good document which takes account of the requirements of sustainable fishing, rationalization, sustainable fishing methods, and the shaping of fishing effort. other important areas of regulation are research and innovation programmes, fair control of fishermen and fisheries, and territorial and coastal waters. the spirit and the letter of this policy can also serve the baltic fisheries and polish fishermen well.
in writing. - i voted for the reform of the eu's common fisheries policy because overfishing could no longer be tolerated. we see that the current fisheries policy has failed, with the increase in overfished stocks compared to 2002. without a sustainable fisheries policy, we would expose the environment to irreversible, catastrophic consequences, with many fish species reduced to a minimum or even extinct.
in writing. − the common fisheries policy, last substantially reformed in 2002, has largely failed. mis-setting, over-fishing and ineffective mechanisms for the conservation of living marine resources have led to a significant overfishing of mediterranean (80%) and atlantic (40%) stocks and to an unacceptably high rate of discards of healthy fish back into the sea. the alarming state of the environment and the difficult economic situation of fishermen and businesses prompted the commission to start work on reforming the common fisheries policy in 2011. the proposed changes are mainly to introduce sustainable fishing quotas by 2015 to restore fish stocks to sustainable levels by 2020 and to establish a discard ban for all species caught. this will improve the environment and rebuild marine resources, while benefiting fishermen by increasing their profits and consumers by providing them with easier access to cheaper fish. in view of the above, i voted with full conviction in favour of the reform of the common fisheries policy and the amendments to the regulation put forward by the rapporteur for the committee on fisheries, ms ulrika rodust of the s&d group. the next step is for member states' ministers to take a position on the proposed regulations. the european parliament has shown in the negotiations that reform is a priority for it, and has also sent a clear signal to the council that it will have to take its position into account.
in writing. - the current eu common fisheries policy is struggling to address many longstanding problems. the proposal in this regulation, to bring all catches closer to the maximum allowable catch (msy) and to reduce those that are too high, is a good solution. it is also necessary to maintain the landing policy in order to avoid unwanted by-catches. it is also proposed to reduce the commercialisation of 'transferable fishing concessions'. as regards fishing concessions, the rules for their award should be more transparent in order to reduce the risk of discrimination between fishermen. it is also necessary to adapt fishing capacity to the prevailing conditions. as part of the restoration of fish stocks, it is proposed to exclude 10 to 20% of its waters as fishing areas. i think that the appropriate regulations contained in this regulation will contribute to a wise and fair management of the marine fisheries sector.
in writing. - the common fisheries policy needs to be changed. two thirds of the world's marine resources are overfished, which has long caused fish prices and fishing costs to rise. the cost of an irrational marine policy is about €865 million a year, according to biodiversity organisations, and resources have declined by 26% in the last 10 years. i am glad that the european parliament finally has a chance to decide on maritime policy. i hope we made the right decision today. the decision is aimed primarily at strengthening the fisheries sector while restoring the balance of the seas. within a few years, the profitability of the fisheries sector should increase and the sector as a whole should recover and create new jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the position taken by mr miroslav ouzkỳ on the noise level of motor vehicles. i believe that the proposed changes, which aim to introduce lower limits on motor vehicle noise and new methods of measuring noise, will improve the quality of life, health and the environment. clear and reliable information on the noise limit should be provided to both car manufacturers and consumers. in addition, the laws of the member states should be harmonised so that the technical requirements concerning the noise level of motor vehicles are applied consistently throughout the european union. there is a need to stimulate the development of innovative, less noisy motor vehicles. however, it should be considered that this may lead to an increase in vehicle prices, which may consequently lead to a decrease in demand.
in writing. − a report on the permissible sound levels of motor vehicles has been drawn up in the environment committee. i congratulate the rapporteur because the subject of the work was primarily technical and the voices of citizens, industry and environmental organisations were included in the discussion. it is good that reason and the arguments in favour of supporting europe's dying automobile industry are finally winning. in poland too, many jobs depend on production decisions in this sector.
in writing. - motor transport is undoubtedly one of the main causes of environmental noise. i am all for reducing noise, which is so bad for our health. reducing noise limits is an important factor, but these values must be both ambitious and achievable. improved methods of testing noise emissions, systematic monitoring of the road surface, which also contributes to vehicle noise, and better information to consumers on vehicle noise levels are certainly needed. better informed consumers will be able to make more informed purchasing decisions based on noise emission data. better information should also help to enable public authorities to put in place appropriate incentives to buy quieter vehicles, so that the noisiest vehicles gradually disappear from our roads. it could also be useful to introduce a vehicle noise level indicator. the union type-approval requirements are also very important, as they should strike a balance between the different objectives and be consistent with the overall approach of striving for quieter, safer and more environmentally friendly vehicles. i am confident that the new legislation will benefit citizens and the environment and will be an important step towards reducing noise.
in writing. − prolonged exposure to high levels of noise can cause significant health problems, leading not only to insomnia and hearing damage, but also to cardiovascular disease and serious mental illness. motorised transport is one of the biggest sources of noise for many europeans. this is why it is so important to have the right legislation and the right use of available technologies to protect the health of citizens as much as possible. the commission proposal should be supplemented, inter alia, by provisions to enable consumers to be informed effectively and clearly of the noise level of a given vehicle, for example by means of an appropriate labelling system used by manufacturers and uniform in all member states. a road classification system that takes into account the impact of the surface on noise levels and limits the entry of heavy goods vehicles, for example into residential areas, at certain times of the day could also be beneficial. it is also necessary to update the current system of vehicle categories and subcategories, which establishes maximum noise emission values, established in 1970 and unchanged since 1985.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the commission proposal for a regulation on the sound level of motor vehicles has as its principal objective the protection of public health and the environment through measures to reduce the sound level of motor vehicles. the proposal would introduce a new testing method for measuring the sound level of motor vehicles and new noise limit values for different categories of light, medium-sized and heavy vehicles. i believe that this is something that will benefit european citizens, but i also think that the eu must give realistic guidelines to the industry for the coming years.
in writing. − the commission’s proposal, supported by commissioner tajani, the envi report and the amendments proposed for plenary set limit values for all new car models. the current vehicle noise standards date back to 1995 and are therefore urgently in need of being updated. around a quarter of cars and a third of trucks tested over the past five years already meet the levels proposed by the committee. however, unfortunately, my vote could not stop the intent of mainly ppe and ecr meps to weaken the balanced proposal in favour of the automobile industry, bringing in much longer phasing-in periods. this clearly shows a lack of ambition in order to create a level-playing field between the modes!
in writing. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety wants new standards to be introduced in the setting of noise standards. the introduction of a new test method is intended to measure the noise level of motor vehicles and to set new noise limits by categorising vehicles into light, medium and heavy. the application should be supplemented by several elements to encourage the purchase of vehicles with a lower noise level. it is also mentioned that not only engines are a source of noise, but also tyres, road surfaces, etc. the present application does not provide information on the noise level of the vehicle. it is therefore necessary to introduce on motor vehicles markings indicating the noise emission characteristic of the vehicle. the commission proposal could also be enriched by a system of classification of roads, taking into account the quality of their surface. from a psychological point of view, noise is a very unpleasant and undesirable sound, causing irritation and fatigue of the whole organism, and in particular of the hearing. it also affects health, as well as the physical condition of a person. therefore, any steps to reduce noise are highly desirable. i'm all for that.
in writing. - the idea of reducing the noise level of motor vehicles is a good one, as it will improve public health and protect the environment. however, it should be noted that this has at least two serious problems. first, it is not enough to improve the quality of the engines themselves. noise also comes from other sources, including tyres and road surfaces. the commission therefore considers that the measures in question are appropriate to address the specific needs of the union industry. the second problem is of a different nature, but it is also one that we must bear in mind. effective noise reduction may mean that some people, especially those with impaired hearing, may be unaware of the approaching vehicle and become its victim. this is particularly relevant for electric or hybrid vehicles. therefore, assuming progress in noise reduction, the introduction of audible warning systems for approaching vehicles should be considered.
in writing. - the new noise directive is an important part of health protection, but i am still wondering what the implications will be for car manufacturers. and what will be the cost to countries like poland, where the state of the cars leaves much to be desired? there is no proper analysis showing these costs. i voted yes, though.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of the report by mr nils torvalds on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council increasing the co-financing rate under the european refugee fund, the european fund for the return of migrants and the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals for certain provisions on financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. the effects of the current financial crisis have prevented some countries from using the funds available under those funds, as they were unable to meet the co-financing requirements accompanying that assistance. i therefore support the proposal to increase the rate of eu co-financing for projects under the above-mentioned funds. i believe this will contribute to the effective management of migration flows. this is extremely important because the inability of one country to act effectively in this area has an impact on the less secure eu as a whole.
in writing. − due to the economic crisis, some eu member states find themselves in a position where they can no longer pay for their share of eu-funded projects and programmes. these are therefore at risk of being cancelled, with negative effects on the member states’ economies and the objectives of the projects and programmes. this report proposes to approve the commission proposal which allows for increased co-financing rates for projects and programmes under the external borders fund, the european refugee fund, the european return fund and the european integration fund and for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability (e.g. the countries under the various european rescue mechanism, such as greece and ireland). very often, it is better that less money is spent on a project than to cancel it completely. for example, if a project for eur 10 million that would previously have been financed with eur 5 million from the eu and eur 5 million from the member state, this could now be eur 5 million from the eu and only eur 2 million from the ms, bringing the total amount down, but without altogether cancelling the project.
in writing. − the commission has proposed the possibility of increasing the level of co-financing for countries benefiting from the financial support mechanism. this proposal takes into account an increase of 20 percentage points in the level of union co-financing. the annual national allocation of funds in accordance with the basic acts will remain unchanged, while the national co-financing level will be reduced accordingly. the proposed increase in co-financing levels is not sustainable. it is temporary and will not affect the 2014-2020 programming period. in addition, such an arrangement can provide a basis for solidarity between member states in the management of migration flows. in addition, the members of the libe delegation suggest that many of the projects planned require an increased level of co-financing. this includes improving the technical equipment of customs and border control authorities. i hope that such actions will contribute to improving security within the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of both resolutions, although i am sceptical about certain projects, such as the funding under the european integration fund. however, most of the proposals do not impose a significant budgetary burden or have a negative impact on the design of the forthcoming planning period, and a number of the solutions presented seem to be of great value. the funds highlighted in the reports address the sensitive issue of managing migration flows between member states. this is an issue for all countries, because any problems that a country experiences are usually passed on to its neighbours and other members of the community. the security of border states is particularly important, as demonstrated by the example of greece. poland's eastern border is also part of the eu's borders and therefore an increase in the co-financing rate under the external borders fund may also be profitable for poland.
in writing. − the serious financial difficulties faced by some eu member states have forced them to use eu financial support mechanisms. however, the overlapping economic problems in this group were the main reason why this group of countries could not meet the co-financing requirements within the available funds. with this in mind, i voted in favour of the report by mr nils torvalds on increasing the level of co-financing under the external borders fund for countries experiencing serious economic difficulties. i believe that this will contribute to the proper implementation of border management tasks by these countries and increase the level of security within the eu.
in writing. − the economic crisis has hit public finances in the eu countries hard. some countries have managed to get public finances back on track on their own, but some have had to ask for financial support. the commission has proposed the possibility of increasing the level of co-financing for member states benefiting from the financial support mechanism. the proposal aims to allow an increase of 20 percentage points in the level of union co-financing. this could lead to greater solidarity between member states in the management of migration flows. this could have an impact on improving governance in the eu. it is therefore in the interest of all member states that commitments made in relation to migration are not affected by economic difficulties in the member state concerned. as the members of the recent libe delegation to greece can attest, many of the projects planned require increased levels of co-financing in order to be implemented. this includes repairing detention facilities that are in poor condition or improving the technical equipment necessary for effective border management.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the conservation of fish stocks. the document provides detailed technical descriptions of the measures to protect fish stocks, including rules on fishing zones, closed seasons, fishing gear and minimum sizes for specific species to be caught. it is essential that a regional approach is taken to this issue, which takes into account the specificities of the individual waters when determining technical measures to protect fisheries resources. i hope that the solutions proposed will contribute to the sustainable management of fisheries resources and to better protection of the marine environment.
in writing. - we have adopted an important report on the future of the common fisheries policy. the changes in this area would take effect from the beginning of 2014. the main objective of the regulation is to create the conditions for the recovery of fish stocks by 2020 so that fisheries in europe become a sustainable sector. the measures adopted provide for greater protection of marine resources. the renewed fish stocks will generate more catches, so in the long term the expected trend should lead to the creation of new jobs in the sector.
in writing. - the adopted report is a guarantee of a better future for both european and polish fisheries. the reform of the union's common fisheries policy aims to prevent overfishing by introducing sustainable fisheries and creating the conditions for fish stocks to be renewed by 2020. the regionalisation of fisheries management is a very important aspect of the reform. in practice, this will mean that only the main legal framework and principles will be defined at eu level, while the actual implementing decisions will be taken at regional level, allowing the specificities and needs of individual water bodies to be taken into account. such changes will allow the sector to function well and even create additional jobs. of course, the document we have is still in need of improvement, but it is a good starting point for further trilateral talks with the european commission and the council.
in writing. − technical protection measures are the rules that our fishermen throughout the european union must apply every day when they go fishing to ensure that the place and the way they fish guarantee their sustainability. these include, inter alia, the minimum size of the individuals to be landed, the minimum size of the nets. the current commission proposal aims to extend the technical measures for a further transitional period until the adoption of a regionalised technical measures framework under the cfp. since the cap could not be introduced before 1 january 2013, a temporary solution was proposed. it consists in amending the basic act without specifying the expiry dates and thus repealing the 2009 and 2011 regulations. the act also takes into account the measures for reducing discards in the waters of the north-east atlantic agreed with the partner countries. this proposal is unfortunately temporary and does not provide fishermen with a clear legal position, but it does ensure sustainable fishing and allows reproduction in ecosystems.
in writing. - i have supported the motion for a resolution. i believe that concrete action is needed to combat the criminal practices of discrimination, inequality and violence against women. the violence against women is particularly disturbing. this fact needs to be condemned and steps taken to eliminate it. women deserve great respect and recognition for their often underappreciated work and efforts, their care of the family and the household, and their work in the world of work. it takes great effort and sacrifice to meet so many responsibilities. women bring invaluable goods and values to society. in this context, appropriate support programmes for women who have been victims of violence should be established and conditions for a decent life ensured. it is also necessary to organise information campaigns to combat stereotypes and unjustified opinions about women. at the same time, i stress that the need to combat violence against women cannot be equated with the unconditional promotion of women's sexual and reproductive rights or the rights of lgbt groups.
in writing. − i have given my support to the motion for a resolution on the elimination and prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls. this resolution provides an outline for future steps to protect women and girls from acts of violence. it is my view that we must not become complacent when it comes to human rights. everyone has the right to live freely and without fear of violence. we must be diligent in our efforts to maintain equality for all citizens. in many cases the women who are victims of violence also have a lower level of education and are prevented from voting. this in itself is outrageous; we must continue to work with the un in addressing and stopping these horrific situations. women must have the right to pursue their goals and retain control of their physical and mental wellbeing. gender-based equality is, and will continue to be, a focus for the eu and this resolution is but another step toward solidifying that end.
in writing. − the lower social status of women is the result of centuries of discrimination and negative stereotypes. this is one of the main reasons why violence against women is still such a widespread social phenomenon. the european union's policy is against this and strongly condemns all discriminatory attitudes and violence against women and children. tradition, honour, culture, privacy or religion cannot be an excuse for member states to dispense with preventing and eliminating violence. combating all forms of violence against women and children requires coordinated strategies. action must start at the lowest national level. the approach should be complex and focused on key issues such as prevention, protection, support for victims, as well as prosecution of perpetrators. the commission is therefore proposing to support initiatives which oppose all forms of violence against women.
in writing. - it is a shame that there are still so many cases of violence against women in europe. of particular concern is the fact that a significant proportion of cases of violence are not reported to the police, especially in the case of serious crimes such as rape. no strategy to combat violence against women can be effective if victims do not report the violence to the appropriate authorities. the law must provide a strong response to this, so that victims can regain a sense of justice, while at the same time both victims and society as a whole are protected from similar cases in the future. it is of concern that in several eu countries, including poland, the penalties for sexual offences are very low and, in addition, their enforcement is often suspended. as an example, 40% of the sentences for rape in poland are suspended prison sentences. such lenient sentences are, in effect, a slap in the face to the wronged by courts that have taken a dismissive view of the wrong done. taking violence against women seriously must mean taking the perpetrators of violence to task, to ensure that they are punished fairly for the harm they have done and at the same time to ensure that society is protected for the future.
for several years now, the european parliament has been receiving requests from the kurds for intervention and mediation on their status and treatment in turkey. the kurds are a group of several million citizens who are often seen through the prism of the stereotype of a terrorist or a beggar. they are citizens of the turkish state, as are other minorities: armenians, tatars, assyrians and others. the equal rights of national minorities and their coexistence on the basis of mutual respect and trust must be guaranteed to all. we are aware that the kurdish issue has different dimensions. on the one hand, terrorist acts attributed to kurdish guerrillas are being publicized, while on the other hand, the kurdish civilian population is also suffering. the process of normalisation must not be too rapid, but should proceed in a harmonious manner, following the establishment of a peaceful roadmap. the european union representatives may play an active role as mediator or intermediary. turkey, which has been seeking membership of the european union for many years, should be most concerned about a peaceful solution to the kurdish minority in that country, since no country with internal divisions can become a member of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the kurds make up almost 20% of the population of turkey, a country which aspires to join the community and is also an important member of nato. the ongoing internal conflict poses a serious threat to the political stability of the state and affects the whole of its society. the kurdish issue is particularly sensitive in the context of syria, against which ankara intends to take military action. the turkish authorities, which are seeking to integrate with europe, have already done a great deal to promote dialogue with the kurds: the ban on the use of their language has been lifted, to which the kurds as a national minority have a full right. the government of prime minister erdoğan is committed to respecting the democratic principles of freedom of speech, association and assembly. the kurdish demands for the regulation of citizenship issues and the reform of the electoral system should also be discussed. but it is imperative that they cease their terrorist activities. obedience to the turkish army's orders to disarm is a necessary condition, especially since the militants have been promised free passage out of turkey.
mr. chairman, please! when we talk about dialogue for a peaceful solution to the kurdish issue in turkey, we cannot forget the situation of journalists covering these issues. for your information, i'll give you a few facts. according to independent estimates, turkey now has the highest number of imprisoned journalists in the world. many of these journalists have been detained on charges of collaborating with terrorist activities linked to kurdish separatism. the office for democratic institutions and human rights has prepared a detailed report listing the imprisoned journalists as of august 2012, there were 78, including 53 people directly connected to the kurdish issue. in a global context, these numbers are frightening. turkey is the undisputed leader in this field, ahead of iran and china. despite recent constitutional reforms that have allowed some prisoners to be released, the deteriorating trend of media freedom is strongly marked. one gets the impression that the authorities in ankara are going in the wrong direction in reforming the wrong law. the situation in terms of reforms and good intentions is systematically deteriorating. however, despite these negative signals, improvements in the quality of the law, including the ability of accused and their lawyers to use any language, can be observed and should be appreciated. but as the european parliament, we should encourage our turkish partners to fulfil their commitments and respect human rights.
mr. chairman, please! turkey has done a lot in recent years to establish dialogue with the kurds. it's a political fact. the european union and the european parliament should be encouraged to put pressure on this dialogue to take place and to produce results. let's be honest, on both sides, i emphasize, on both sides - what has already fallen in this room - there are environments, there are political groups, there are people who do not want this dialogue, who want to undermine their positions. it's the turkish side, it's the kurdish side. i think that's what the recent tragic events in paris seem to show. the role of the european parliament is to demand human rights and at the same time to act realistically towards achieving some concrete, measurable effects step by step. i'm all for that.
mr. chairman, please! the last few decades have been a period of deep tension and re-evaluation in the middle east. one of the key challenges is the kurdish issue. the last few years have brought a wave of changes that are important for the region. turkey has taken up the kurdish question internally, it has liberalised its previously uncompromising position towards the kurdish minority, and externally, it has recognised the kurds as one of its key partners in regional policy. this gave the kurds de jure a significant degree of autonomy, de facto full independence. in addition to hopes, there is a concern: the kurdish areas are the crossroads of drug and arms trafficking. the kurds are also key to the further development of the situation in syria, which turkey is so keen to resolve. so if even the recent changes in turkish politics are dictated by a certain efficiency, interest and machiavellianism, then it is worth talking about perpetuating these changes. especially on the canon of international law. the european union should support further turkish-kurdish dialogue.
the question asked by raising the blue card. you know i value your work in parliament, especially on human rights. we've worked together many times. then i'd like to congratulate you on that. but my question is whether you do not find it unfortunate that in this resolution we do admonish israel on human rights and there are no actual calls for respect for human rights in russia, where the situation is getting worse. the latest human rights watch report shows that last year was the worst in recent memory. don't you find that unfortunate?
i support the resolution for the 22nd session of the un human rights council. i would like to draw your attention to three points in particular. effective action by the security council is necessary in view of the increasing number of war crimes and crimes against humanity in syria. i hope that we can agree on a text of a resolution aimed at putting effective pressure to put an end to violence and human rights violations in this country. the situation in syria should be dealt with by the international criminal court. we also need an international commission of inquiry to look into human rights abuses in north korea, where at least 200,000 political prisoners are held in concentration camps. torture, rape, mass executions, and slave labor are commonplace. the death penalty is used for the smallest of offenses, often without a trial. the next issue is the palestinian-israeli conflict. tensions between israel and palestine continue to rise and threaten to escalate to other countries. the conflict is military, ethnic, religious, and involves many countries. changing the status of palestine at the un may not play a crucial role in resolving the israeli-palestinian conflict itself, but it is a clear signal to palestine that the international community supports abbas' vision and does not support israel's aggression.
the 22nd session of the un human rights council is being prepared, and religious freedom will be discussed. in the draft resolution submitted by our group, the conservatives, which refers to the text of the un resolution on freedom of religion and belief, we stress in paragraph 23 that freedom of religion and freedom of expression should be a priority in any democratic state and society. we talk about religious freedom, but the truth is that christians are the most discriminated against religious group in the world, as the latest open doors report shows. according to the organization, there are about 100 million christians who are persecuted worldwide. persecution of christians takes many forms, from social and environmental discrimination to rape and brutal murder. this should be echoed not only in the european parliament but also in the un human rights council. we cannot stop at the records, but we must set up the appropriate committees with the effective instruments to combat this phenomenon. the end of persecution of christians must be a priority not only for the un but also for the european union, whose founders were great christians like konrad adenauer, alcide de gasperi and robert schuman.
mr. chairman, please! as a member of the delegation for relations with belarus, i am glad that mrs gomes has mentioned the post-soviet area and that this issue is being taken up, because we are indeed seeing a deterioration in the human rights situation in belarus. it's very good that it's being expressed in this room as well. i also see jack protasiewicz, the longtime head of this delegation, here, and i think we are pleased that this subject is of interest to you. as a member of the delegation to the eu-russia parliamentary cooperation committee, i express my concern or regret - as i have already said - that this issue has not been included in our resolution. does the fact that russia is a permanent member of the security council affect that? i hope not, because we shouldn't let this go, because the situation in russia is getting worse every year.
mr president, i am sorry for being a little delayed in arriving for the debate, but in parallel there is a meeting of the conference of presidents of the european parliament that is talking precisely about mr kwaśniewski and mr cox’s mission to ukraine. coming from that meeting i have no doubt that it is our moral and political obligation as the european union to support people who strive for human rights and freedoms, especially in the countries along our borders. speaking about our immediate neighbourhood, as the vice-president responsible for the eastern partnership countries, i would like to focus specifically and particularly on belarus, where human rights defenders go to prison for their activities, where there is violation of freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, and where the death penalty still remains a natural form of punishment and, i am sorry to say, has been regularly abused. and yet belarus is not the only example of human rights violations and persecutions in our neighbourhood countries. we know about the human rights situation in russia, which was mentioned by mr migalski, and the deteriorating situation in ukraine as well in other eastern european countries, the former soviet union countries. we need to use all the mechanisms and international tools available here in the european parliament, in the european union and in other international organisations such as the united nations in order to have strong leverage and effective pressure on the authorities in those countries and mainstream the human rights issue in our agendas. in this regard i welcome the united nations human rights council decision on the appointment of a special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in belarus, another acknowledgement amongst states of the world of a drastic human rights situation in this country. it is a shame that the belarusian authorities have refused to cooperate with the rapporteur. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. - i'm not going to the police. my dear jack! you mentioned three countries in the post-soviet space where the human rights situation is deteriorating, and i share that opinion. but do you see the need for gradation, that is, the fact that putting ukraine, russia, and especially belarus in the same bag is very unfair to ukraine, because it's as if we are pushing it into this group of countries where we can't even talk about human rights violations, about the lack of democracy at all? is there a noticeable difference?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. yes, the difference is noticeable. i have listed these three countries as the three closest, directly neighbouring countries of the former soviet union to the european union, but in fact we see the difference between the situation of democracy and human rights in ukraine, where it is the best, although unfortunately it is getting worse; in russia, where we are trying to influence this situation, which is not easy, and in belarus, which is a country completely closed to any argument from the civilized world - not only the european union, not only the west, but such universally respected institutions to which belarus belongs, such as the council of europe, the osce or the un.
on behalf of the efd group. - madam president! - i have to go. the fight against global warming is not a european problem, it is a problem for the whole planet and for all countries. the new agreement must therefore concern everyone, and in particular those who pollute the most: china, the united states, india. china alone now consumes as much coal as the rest of the world combined. while the european union is adopting increasingly ambitious reduction plans, the other largest polluters have not even made formal reduction commitments. in such a situation, further reductions, raising the bar, not only lose their ecological meaning, but become economically unreasonable. european industry is losing its competitiveness, companies are being moved to countries where there are no such strict rules, and our citizens are paying ever higher energy bills. it is also important to pay close attention to ensuring that reduction targets in europe are adapted to the real capabilities and situations of individual countries.
many meps are calling for the eu to take a united stance at the climate conference. the commissioner said that today. this is an unrealistic proposition, given the conflicting conclusions reached by scientists on the actual human impact on climate change and its scale, on the one hand, and the conflicting interests of the member states in this respect, on the other. the whole european action to combat global warming is centred around reducing carbon dioxide emissions, or co2. if, for example, in france about 75% of energy comes from atomic energy and in poland more than 90% from coal, it is difficult to expect a unified position on this matter in practice, despite sincere wishes. even assuming a serious human impact on the atmosphere, it is not possible in the short term to demand that the national economies of many eu member states be sacrificed on the altar of the climate battle. this will lead to an increase in energy prices in the express mode, while at the same time intensifying anti-eu sentiment.
madam president! it is not poland that is holding back the achievement of global climate goals, but the largest emitters. poland signed the kyoto protocol and under its presidency the durban climate negotiations made the furthest progress. it's just that our country is realistic. as for the effects, we can talk about them if we have a signed agreement, but global, not exclusive, not just for one area. the air on the entire globe affects all of us, not just poland, china or the united states. so we should focus primarily on the path we are going to take (goals already set), the path and the time. is this time we've imagined real time? the next generation wants nothing else: they want a clean environment, a healthy life, but also a job and a decent life, but in europe. the next summit is to be held in warsaw. it's going to be a very difficult summit and difficult negotiations. first of all, we set out to sign a commitment, but on a global scale. i don't know if all the economies of the world will follow us. and that's the first condition. secondly, we need to make binding decisions on financial support for the poorest, those who suffer from climate change, but also those who have to adapt their industry in some way. europe is facing many ambitious climate policy challenges. it is worthwhile and necessary to move forward, but the effort is worthless unless others join in. the wisdom of europe is to find consensus and solutions that others will support.
mr. chairman, please! it is very good that such a question has been put to the council and the commission. and this question concerns the common voice of the european union at the cop 19 climate conference, the un climate conference that will be held in warsaw, which i am very pleased about and i think i can say that i am proud of. we are preparing for this conference at the end of the year, because we know - and i agree with the commissioner - that the most important thing is for europe to speak with one voice. but we also have to realize that we have to take a global approach, even a non-european one, right? to achieve this outcome, we need more talk to the citizens, we need more consultation, more contacts, better debate. we should prepare that too and we should also talk about it at the end of the year in warsaw. yes, commissioner, this common position is necessary, but i must also join the other voices that have already been heard in this chamber today. a common position will be possible when we take account of the different policies of the member states. we're cutting emissions, we're supporting renewable energy, but we have to do the same with things like shale gas. europe has very large reserves of this raw material. climate change needs to be emitted by all the emitters, so there's no global agreement without countries like china, brazil, india, but we need to take effective action to do that. we need to think about how europe can persuade these partners to become more involved. maybe we should address these controversial issues, like free trade agreements and greenhouse gas reductions and development aid and the new climate agreement. if we don't, we're also indirectly emitters.
mr. chairman, please! we agree that we need to fight climate change and introduce all kinds of laws and articles that will make it possible for us to simply say that we are really effective. the problem is, unfortunately, the ideological approach which condemns coal and shale gas as the sources of energy that europe does not need. and here i would ask the commissioner to move away from this ideological approach and to focus on the fact that we can also reach agreement on this matter simply. i encourage that approach... the chairman has taken the floor.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'm not going to let you get away with this. it is once again - and i repeat it again, unfortunately - that the members of the legal affairs committee are calling on the european commission and the member states to pay due attention to the problem of training judicial staff in the context of a better knowledge and, therefore, a better application of eu law. this is the basis for the smooth functioning of justice throughout the european union, and our arguments have been repeated for many years and are well known. knowledge of eu law, the legal systems of the member states and specialised language courses is essential to ensure that eu citizens have access to fair trials. the resolution we are proposing rightly emphasizes that a national court and a national judge are a court and a judge of the union, and that national law is already overwhelmingly eu law. the rashness in this area can only be reflected negatively on our citizens. i would urge all interested parties to look carefully at our proposals for the establishment of a judicial coordinator for eu law. i would also suggest that we make better use of the opportunities that modern technology gives us for communication and exchange of practices and experiences between judicial staff in different courts, or for sharing legal knowledge via the internet. it will save both time and money. i would also like to draw attention once again to a very important aspect: we will have good judges and practitioners of law in the union if we ensure that they are properly prepared at the first stage of their training, that is to say, at university law schools, where they should learn national and community law, but also foreign languages and contacts with others, so that they can then apply these skills in practice.
mr. chairman, please! i thank the rapporteur and the commissioner for the good proposals. we need effective action to combat tax fraud and we need effective protection of honest businesses, which should never suffer any damage if they behave in a lawful manner. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the european court of justice for its judgment of 21 june last year, in which the court very clearly took the side of honest entrepreneurs and wrote that they cannot be deprived of their right to deduct vat if they are not shown to have abused it. as a rule, i do not speak critically of the authorities of my country in this chamber, but today i am unfortunately obliged to do so, because it is in poland that cases of repression by the tax authorities of honest entrepreneurs unfortunately occur. although they have not been shown to have misused vat, they are not entitled to deduct vat. the commission is aware of complaints in this regard. i'd like to ask the commissioner to look into these polish cases.
question asked by raising a blue card addressed to alexander mirsky i'd like to thank mr. mirsky for agreeing to answer. you spoke of cases involving any such taxation, and that is the problem i also spoke of, which is happening in poland. this applies, for example, to transport undertakings and companies involved in the purchase of scrap where the tax rules are interpreted in a very arbitrary way. would you agree with the commission's demand that these cases, the complaints of businesses in such cases, be thoroughly examined? to bring to the commission's attention the cases of honest and unjustly repressed entrepreneurs?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. commissioner, mr. president, i'm not going to let you down. congratulations to the president on his inauguration and congratulations to our colleague, member of parliament mario mauro, on his excellent report. i'm glad we had this discussion a moment ago. i think that the european investment bank should - and i agree entirely with my esteemed predecessor - be involved in green, renewable energy projects, especially as some governments, like the government in my country, poland, are withdrawing from these projects and scrapping the social initiatives related to them. that's what happened with the geothermal in torun. following the speech of my colleague, i would suggest that your bank, mr president, should increase and intensify its activities in central and eastern europe. i would also like to see the european investment bank in the coming years - unlike the european central bank, which is playing at rescuing banks - actually stimulating the real economy, rather than creating apparent financial movements like the european central bank.
mr. chairman, please! i would also like to emphasize the special role played by the european investment bank and the positive assessment made by the european parliament. i also thank mr mario mauro for this very good report, and i think it does a lot for the future. i would like to stress first of all the increased interest in supporting the sme sector by the european investment bank, in particular that this is not yet recognised in all member states, especially in this sme sector. i think it has the greatest potential - which we emphasise - in terms of job creation. let's take a closer look at this. secondly, it is natural that the european investment bank should support large projects. however, i think that the synergy between the activities of the european investment bank and the various policies of the european union should also be emphasised. and third, we talked about, among other things, corporate social responsibility issues in this session. eib-funded projects should support those companies that respect the principles of corporate social responsibility.
in writing. - i support the report by ms kartika tamara liotard on active ageing in good health. older people are the fastest growing age group in europe. member states should therefore promote and support all forms of ageing in a dignified manner. despite statistically increasing life expectancy, an increasing proportion of people suffer from serious chronic diseases associated with age. in this context, the provision of better and more reasonable health care, social welfare services and health insurance is particularly important. a very common problem is the lack of physical activity among the elderly. according to the who, lack of it is the fourth most common cause of death. it is therefore important to promote healthy and active lifestyles and to provide information on the risks of an unhealthy lifestyle. i also think it is highly desirable to promote intellectual activity as a way of combating the dementia that is spreading among the elderly. i also support other innovative solutions that would contribute to improving the quality of life and health of older people and would allow them to participate more fully in society.
in writing. − the problem of an ageing population is affecting a growing number of member states. it is estimated that by 2060, the number of europeans aged over 65 will almost double. we must therefore do everything we can to ensure that this group of people enjoys a decent standard of living. the infrastructure has a direct impact on living conditions, both the one closest to the house or apartment and the local one in rural or urban areas. providing adequate access to transport services is particularly important in rural areas, where it is very common for an elderly person to live in a place far from urbanised areas. in this case, the lack of communication means drastically reduces the possibility of access to services, such as health care. we must not forget the phenomenon of social exclusion - lack of employment opportunities, or even volunteering opportunities, and discrimination on grounds of age, health or disability are common causes of isolation of older people from the rest of society. and the ability of an older person to impart knowledge and experience is invaluable. it is also worth using this wisdom in, for example, policy and decision-making processes. support initiatives to improve the living conditions of older people, call on regional and local authorities to act on behalf of this group of citizens and support them to live as long, healthy and active lives as possible.
in writing. - the eu population is ageing rapidly. this makes you think about the idea of active aging and maintaining fitness. since aging affects all of us, this idea is long-lasting and extends to future generations. in this context, it is necessary to examine how the administrative units of the eu member states are adapted to the needs of an ageing population and whether they enable active ageing. the better the adaptation to such active time-spending, the longer the period of independent living of the elderly person. studies have shown that most areas are not well adapted to these changes. so there was a need to adopt a strategy to help make them more welcoming. the strategic implementation plan for the 'european partnership for innovation in active and healthy ageing' can be the first step taken by the european commission towards creating age-friendly places for older people with the aim of creating a society open to all age groups by 2020. standardised data collection, evaluation and monitoring processes will enable stakeholders to target their actions and resources to those groups of people and places most in need of change and adaptation, thereby contributing to the implementation of policies and programmes in a more cost-effective manner.
in writing. - biodiversity is declining rapidly and in direct proportion to the demand for endangered animals or plants. to stop this industry, we need to take collective action, especially with asian countries, which are now the main recipients of prohibited items. in this vote i fully supported the clause in which parliament calls on the european union and the member states to call for the suspension of trade with parties that do not comply with cites decision no 14.69. it is time to take strong measures to finally win the fight against poachers, smugglers, illegal traffickers and to raise awareness in society so that citizens are not the last link in this chain of crime. the shark fin campaign showed that it could be done.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. this document addressed important issues relating to the financial and economic difficulties in establishing the budget. in view of the current crisis, i support the view that the eu's revenue and expenditure plan should be designed with prudence and economy. the 2014 budget should therefore be drawn up with a balanced approach combining the efficient use of available resources with an appropriate form of austerity policy, so that the budgetary resources are used to achieve the eu's objectives. i would like to emphasise that savings have been achieved so far in many areas of expenditure, including the building maintenance pool, business travel and interpretation and interpretation. however, the defence of austerity should not have a negative impact on the efficiency of the european parliament's work. its level is closely linked to meeting the expectations of all the citizens of the european union, whom parliament represents.
in writing. - we adopted today in plenary the budgetary guidelines for most of the european institutions. contrary to popular belief, the share of this administrative expenditure in the general budget of the union is small and often lower than the cost of running the administration in the individual member states. the proposed savings and cuts are justified wherever there is a suspicion of waste of public funds, such as the fact that two, or rather three, european parliament seats are maintained. at the same time, i join many voices in the debate who point to a kind of discrimination in institutions against workers from countries that have joined the union since 2004. almost ten years later, a general national comparison shows that the average ranking of these workers does not reflect the demographic potential of countries such as poland.
in writing. − meps' report concerns the 2014 budget for all the eu institutions except the european commission. however, the rapporteur focused on the european parliament. the most controversial points in the report itself, and especially in the amendments to it, concerned one seat of the ep and the issue of interpreting meetings of, amongst others, parliamentary committees. but we must remember that as the only eu institution directly elected by the citizens, we and our work should be accessible to them. this report is a good report, recognising the need for structural and organisational reforms to lead to savings, which is particularly important in times of economic crisis.
in writing. − in anticipation of negotiations on the multiannual financial framework being concluded, parliament has started preparations on the eu budget for the year 2014. in sections which concern the european institutions in particular, parliament rightly highlights the need for appropriate funding to be dedicated to the european external action service, including the eu delegations, given the challenges this institution has faced since its creation only a few years ago and the challenges it must meet given the european union’s role at global level.
in writing. − although i voted in favour of the 2014 budgetary guidelines, i have a few reservations about the general framework of this document. in these difficult times of economic crisis, some of the expenditures that are budgeted for the coming year should be considered. i believe that expenditure on administration and the external action service should be reduced, which is a kind of duplication of work, because the creation of the eu external action service was in practice intended to limit the expenditure of member states' governments on their foreign policy (embassies, consulates, etc.), but this has not happened. at the present time, brussels should not allocate additional funds to the purchase of further buildings, which will de facto enlarge the already overgrown euro-administration. i think that in difficult times, difficult decisions should be made, and that is why the strasbourg headquarters should be abolished (the cost of one session in that city is about 20 million euros!).
in writing. − in these difficult times, times of crisis, we need more solidarity from the administration with citizens who are losing their jobs or are unable to find them. i think we should reduce administrative expenditure in the new budget. apart from the standard demands of stopping the monthly visits to strasbourg, i propose above all a reduction in the expenditure of the european external action service and a reduction in the expenditure of the high level of the administration, including the members of the european parliament. i think that in the context of european solidarity, members should reduce their staff by one third.
in writing. - the concept of corporate social responsibility has undergone a major transformation from an idea that is rather foreign to companies to a business card, in a sense, of their reliability. businesses see the real benefits of being socially responsible and we should continue to promote these principles and encourage and motivate businesses to implement them. companies have to do this voluntarily, they have to want to implement these principles. forcing is not the answer here. i fully support the concept of corporate social responsibility and i am glad that companies are also seeing the benefits. from the perspective of international trade, the implementation of the principles of corporate social responsibility in trade policy is a necessary condition for the policy to be consistent with the union's overall objectives. responsible companies also play a key role in trade agreements. there is no doubt that, as a matter of principle, trade should not be detached from other eu policies, internal or external, and should in no way lead to abuses in the areas of working conditions, democratic freedoms or the environment. trade and corporate social responsibility should be more closely linked. i support a new definition that enables businesses to contribute to a social market economy, supported by innovative business models. it is very important not only to create incentives for companies, to remove red tape, but also to ensure that this responsible action also translates into improved profitability and does not impose additional burdens.
in writing. − the resolution adopted today is a strong signal to the european commission, member state governments and businesses themselves to take bold steps to promote csr strategies. a company's active attitude towards its responsibility for the interests of its employees leads to greater social trust and acceptance and thus to a more stable position on the market. we therefore support the commission in its plans to develop appropriate guidelines or legislative initiatives to pursue a coherent eu policy and to implement international standards effectively. at the same time, we believe that any regulatory action should ensure that businesses retain maximum flexibility, as they have the primary responsibility for implementing this strategy, including by mitigating the social impact of the current economic crisis. we are also working to make it easier for businesses of all sizes and structures to access finance.
in writing. − the committee on legal affairs and the committee on employment and social affairs have decided to establish close cooperation to ensure a coherent approach to parliament's position on the renewed eu strategy 2011-2014 on corporate social responsibility during this period. the exclusive competence of each committee was defined based on three key words: people, profit, planet earth. in its new strategy, the european commission proposes a new definition of corporate social responsibility, understood as 'the responsibility of companies for their impact on society'. on the basis of this new definition, the commission proposes a series of specific measures to optimise the impact of csr policy.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported the report on the renewal of the eu strategy for corporate social responsibility. we must make sure that csr is not just a marketing slogan, interpreted at will by corporations, but above all that it is in line with the legislation and collective agreements in force. modern, socially responsible companies are not indifferent to such actions as environmental protection and the introduction of special social and protection programmes for employees. today, it is of the utmost importance that efforts, especially in the area of global business, are aligned with environmental, social and human rights standards. we should insist that corporate social responsibility policy at eu level is coherent.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the positive assessment of european support for global csr initiatives and the increased activity of the commission in the report are certainly valuable. the same applies to the report's objectives of sustaining economic recovery and of drawing attention to the need for the european institutions to step up their efforts to implement the recommendations of the organisation for economic cooperation and development in the field of business. the proposal to oblige the commission to submit an annual report to parliament and the council on this subject is noteworthy. unfortunately, the resolution contains a number of proposals which i cannot support, for example the requirement that companies disclose non-financial information, which is contrary to the rules of competition. i do not agree with the attempt to shift the responsibility for environmental protection measures taken by public authorities to the business community. the european social charter and the charter of fundamental rights also raise doubts as regards companies. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. − promoting corporate social responsibility (csr) avoids harmful trends and tendencies emerging from the crisis in a society functioning in a particular environment. csr must have a positive impact on the sphere of economic benefits and on the building of a better brand image. it is an incentive for businesses to play an active role in creating better living conditions. i support the report by mr richard howit, on corporate social responsibility. i am also convinced of the need to implement and respect the international oecd guidelines on transnational corporations and the principles developed and promoted by the un. corporate social responsibility should be promoted by leading companies. member states should encourage decent work and respect for private and family life. the role of global csr instruments in third countries is also an important factor. i would thus like to express my belief that csr will strike the right balance between the interests of companies and their social responsibility.
in writing. - the concept of csr is an innovative response to various social or environmental problems. therefore, it should be better promoted so that companies actively use it and citizens are aware of it. companies want to implement csr and we need to ensure that we provide the right legal environment, but also promote a general attitude that will motivate companies to voluntarily incorporate csr into their practices. corporate social responsibility should be seen as an opportunity, not a threat, for the competitiveness of enterprises. i welcome the emphasis on european support for global initiatives on corporate social responsibility, the redefinition of the concept and the much more active role of the european commission itself. corporate social responsibility is essential if business confidence is to be restored and the economic recovery to be sustained. in the context of international trade, this responsibility is so crucial that trade is justified if it contributes to economic development, employment and an increase in living standards. only under this condition can the opening of trade be seen as positive. europe, but also the international community, is faced with the need to incorporate real guarantees of sustainable development and social rights into the rules of trade in the name of cohesion. this is very important because it responds to the expectations of a large number of citizens. i supported the report because it makes an important contribution to the debate on the development of this very important concept.
in writing. − corporate social responsibility is essential if confidence in the business of companies and firms is to be restored and if the economic recovery in the european union is to be sustained. we should see it as an opportunity, not a threat, to the competitiveness of these entities. responsible and prosperous businesses should be asked to demonstrate active involvement in the process of mitigating the social impact of the crisis. this action should be to implement the solutions proposed by the rapporteur on corporate social responsibility, namely in the areas of job creation, health at work, pension stability, promotion of minimum wages, elimination of labour exploitation practices in business supply chains, and promotion of new markets for socially useful and environmentally friendly products and services. that is why i voted in favour of the report by mr richard howitt.
in writing. − the european parliament's draft resolution welcomes the new emphasis on european support for global corporate social responsibility initiatives. first of all, the debate on corporate social responsibility is situated in the context of the current economic crisis. it was argued that csr is essential if business confidence is to be restored and the economic recovery to be sustained. short-term thinking in brussels, which focuses solely on the transparency, accountability and accountability of financial markets, would be to repeat the same mistakes that are accused of being the agents responsible for the collapse of banks. another priority of the report is to present concrete concepts that will help to translate the commission's intention into better implementation of global csr initiatives.
in writing. - corporate social responsibility is an important issue. the report prepared by mr howitts is a perfect expression of her spirit. in poland, for some years now, it has been evident that companies and industry are trying to invest a percentage of their resources in socially acceptable purposes. they donate to foundations, build public facilities, and support sports. the latter form in particular has become a popular way of combining a mutual interest company advertising and support for local sport. for example, the most deserving football club in krakow - krakow's wisła, which has been the calling card of polish football for almost 107 years - is supported by a global powerhouse in cable production. the women's basketball section of this great and deserved club for poland, winning laurels of victory on the international arena, is supported by a company from the processing sector, which has located production facilities in lesser poland. i can only encourage such solutions.
in writing. − the commission has proposed a rapid reaction mechanism. it would enable member states to respond more swiftly and effectively to vat fraud. the rapid reaction mechanism would give member states the possibility to introduce certain emergency measures. the proposal provides that member states could apply for one month a 'reverse charge mechanism' under which the recipient, rather than the supplier of goods or services, would be liable for payment of vat. this would significantly increase the chances of effectively combating complex fraud, such as carousel fraud, and of reducing the financial losses that are irreversible in such cases. vat fraud costs the eu and national budgets several billion euros a year. in some serious cases, large sums of money are lost in a short time because of the speed with which fraud mechanisms are developing today.
in writing. − strengthening the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion is crucial to restoring and maintaining the stability and strength of the public finance sector across the union. this is one of the most important amendments to the report, and it reflects the report perfectly. today, vat evasion is a major drain on national budgets. as with drugs, the fight against drugs must be conducted at the pan-national level to be effective, especially in the case of the so-called 'tax carousels'. they came with the disappearance of customs borders. the amendments voted today are therefore important, especially as countries burdened by the costs of the crisis are increasingly faced with the decision of how to defend their own finances. i do not agree with a common vat for all eu countries.
in writing. − the annual growth survey sets out the economic priorities for 2013 and indicates that while the temporary anti-crisis measures are beginning to deliver positive effects in terms of deficit reduction and financial market sentiment, continued reforms are essential to achieve sustainable growth and job creation in the long term. the five priorities identified by the commission as key to overcoming the crisis and restoring growth, namely diversified and smart fiscal consolidation, restoring normal lending to the economy, promoting growth and competitiveness, fighting unemployment and modernising public administration, should be welcomed. the resolution also calls on the commission to present a report to the european council on the implementation of a strategy for sustainable fiscal discipline, with specific proposals to promote private investment, improve the efficiency of tax systems and create jobs. the need for structural labour market reforms to increase the flexibility needed to effectively mitigate shocks and reduce youth unemployment by better matching skills to labour demand has become particularly evident in recent times. in today's resolution we also point to the potential for growth in the single market, which can be realised, for example, by removing the many barriers that still exist in the services sector.
in writing. − the european semester constitutes one of the bases for sustainable functioning of the euro area with the aim of fostering competitiveness and convergence across the european union. parliament, in cooperation with the national parliaments, is actively involved in the process. the text adopted notes the challenges of growth-friendly consolidation which must be addressed to regain stability and recovery in the union. in particular, parliament calls for a proper role to be played by the eu budget to this end, as it constitutes an investment instrument for growth and employment. the commission should properly note its importance, therefore, in the annual growth survey.
in writing. − it should be stressed that the priorities for the current european semester presented by the commission are broadly in line with those of the previous year. although european leaders are already predicting a quick end to the crisis, experience has shown that such declarations should be treated with a certain amount of restraint. nevertheless, it is true that some signs of improvement are already apparent. the euro area countries, which have undergone difficult reforms, are slowly recovering from the crisis their imbalances in economic contacts are decreasing and their competitiveness is increasing. this in turn translates into a slow recovery in financial market confidence and a fall in the cost of debt financing. the euro area and the eu are feeling it the euro is strengthening against the dollar. the next stage of the 2013 european semester will be the assessment and endorsement by the european council at its spring meeting of the priorities contained in the growth analysis. the individual member states will then present national reform programmes corresponding to the priorities adopted by the european council, which, after their assessment, will be used by the european council to formulate formal recommendations, which should then be reflected in the draft national budgets for the following year. as the results of last year's european semester show, the commission is doing increasingly well in coordinating economic governance in the eu. it is to be hoped that the 2013 semester will deliver even better results, marking the end of the era of crisis in europe.
in writing. − we adopted three resolutions on the 2013 annual growth survey, the governance of the single market and employment and social aspects, respectively. the commission's growth analysis for 2013 has won our approval as it assumes fiscal consolidation and appropriate structural reforms to foster growth and long-term competitiveness, which is the key to overcoming the crisis. i am also pleased to note that the draft decision contained in the 'two-pack' supports the economic dialogue and the overall monitoring of the european parliament and national parliaments over the european semester process. since the beginning of the semester, i have advocated this key element of the semester's democratic legitimacy by involving both the ep and national parliaments in the process.
in writing. − the annual growth analysis has shown that the labour market situation requires immediate action. in the last 12 months, the number of unemployed has increased by 2 million. more than 25 million people are now unemployed. long-term unemployment has reached alarming levels and the situation of young people has deteriorated dramatically in many countries. the analysis of economic growth should be used to identify priorities for economic recovery that are employment-friendly, that genuinely increase employment opportunities and that promote social inclusion. member states should strengthen public employment services and intensify active labour market policies, including jobseeker assistance, apprenticeships, support for entrepreneurs and quality traineeships.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? this report tackles an important and sensitive issue in the field of employment. however, while any action by the commission aimed at promoting growth by making it easier to do business is to be welcomed, public institutions cannot become job regulators. they should rather promote the deepening of the community market by improving legislation on the free movement of goods, services and workers. the employment guarantee for young people, which is already being proposed in another report, is contrary to the principles of the free market. unfortunately, this will lead to fictitious jobs and to a slowdown in the process of professional development, even though the aim is to enable further training. some of the records actually suggest that the administration is interfering with pay policy, which is always dangerous. the imposition of social recommendations on countries in the context of the european semester also raises legitimate concerns. i cannot support such a resolution. i voted against it.
in writing. − job creation contributes to economic growth, which is undoubtedly a priority objective in order to improve coordination of member states' economic policies and prevent future economic crises. member states should therefore support and promote self-employment, improve business conditions and increase aid to small and medium-sized enterprises. the processes related to the european semester should in particular take into account areas of reduced competitiveness where there is the greatest risk of poverty and social exclusion. at the same time, i would like to stress the importance of establishing monitoring mechanisms for the implementation of the recommendations of the european semester in the member states. i believe that this would allow reforms to be carried out effectively in the countries affected by the crisis.
in writing. − the european semester constitutes one of the bases for sustainable functioning of the euro area with the aim of fostering competitiveness and convergence across the european union. one of the most dire challenges faced by the union for the moment is the worrying rise in unemployment, in particular youth unemployment, throughout europe. given that european integration is more than just economic, the european council should during the spring council properly consider eu-wide policies aiming at stepping up efforts to increase job creation, improve job quality and take measures to fight poverty and social inclusion. the eu budget must play a proper role in this regard, in particular with regard to investments in education and training.
in writing. - the labour market situation is getting worse. rising unemployment poses a real threat to the generational stability of the european economy. unfortunately, decisions at eu level do not improve the situation. one of them is the tight adherence to the energy and climate package. i think the report we are voting on is missing a mention of his suspension. analysts say that its record in poland alone will cause a decline in the quality of life and a significant increase in unemployment. other countries in central and eastern europe and southern europe will be affected in a similar way. moreover, as practice shows, the decision-makers are completely oblivious to the budget. the proposed provisions are too optimistic.
in writing. − the european single market is one of the largest economies in the world, creating growth opportunities for the european union as a whole and contributing to gdp growth. i therefore support the position put forward by mr andreas schwab on better governance of the single market. as a form of economic integration, it plays a key role in the dynamics of economic growth and employment, especially in times of crisis. i believe that the member states should coordinate their enforcement activities in areas that are of key importance to them. in order to deepen economic integration, it is necessary to remove obstacles that hinder free trade and the free movement of goods, services, labour and capital between eu member states. the 'single market test' is also an interesting solution, which would verify that national rules do not have a negative impact on the functioning of the common market. i would like to emphasise that the freedom to conduct business has created new opportunities for growth and increased competition has allowed prices to fall and has contributed to an expansion of the range of goods and services offered. however, freedom as a principle underpinning the functioning of the single market should not have a negative impact on the behaviour of firms and thus run counter to consumer, worker or environmental protection rules.
in writing. − the single market is a means of improving competitiveness and achieving economic growth in the union. however, its potential is not yet fully exploited. the single market rules are already being developed and the main focus should be on their enforcement and implementation. unfortunately, the data show that member states are far behind in transposing eu law. insufficient implementation of the rules creates barriers to the internal market and thus blocks its opportunities. i therefore welcome the commission's efforts to improve the management of the internal market, but they should be even more ambitious, especially in terms of coordination or the introduction of the 'single market test'. i supported the report because it contains important guidance that will help improve the governance of the internal market. it indicates that there is a need to prioritise implementation and monitoring, which i fully agree with. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries, including the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries, and on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries. looking at the internal market in the context of the european semester is a very good solution, as it will make it easier to identify the obstacles still encountered in this market and to monitor progress. individual approaches will certainly play a large role. each member state should be looked at individually and solutions tailored to the problems encountered. the definition of recommendations for each member state individually will be more effective as it will better highlight the real problems.
in writing. − the single market is rightly considered one of the foundations of the success of european integration. as part of the european semester, parliament calls on the other european institutions and the member states to take steps to unleash its full potential. the most important areas where further action is needed relate to the digital market, services and energy. to assess progress made, the governance framework for implementation and execution of the existing single market provisions also needs to be established, along with a better functioning framework for cooperation and exchange of best practices between national administrations as well as points of contact for businesses and citizens.
in writing. − since the financial crisis, which began in late 2007 and early 2008, the world has been in recession. it has serious socioeconomic consequences for citizens and businesses in the eu. the crisis has further highlighted the significant inefficiency of the public debt management system in the union. the costs of this failure will be borne by citizens and businesses. as part of the remedial action, the single market is crucial for citizens and businesses. it will be a key driver of growth and jobs. it will restore competitiveness and stimulate growth. given the considerable body of legislation already in place in the form of single market rules, their proper implementation and enforcement is becoming increasingly important. however, statistics showing member states' backlogs in transposing single market legislation raise serious doubts and show that we are still not reaping the full potential benefits of a fully developed single market.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the next human rights council meeting will have to address a few pressing issues. the current situation in mali and the central african republic and the still unresolved conflict in syria are of particular importance. these war-torn countries have recently seen many cases of human rights violations and, unfortunately, war crimes. there is also a direct threat to the security of european countries. as a member of the delegation for relations with the countries of south-east asia, i would like to draw the attention of the high representative to the issues related to discrimination against the rights of the christian minority in burma. there is also virtually no freedom of speech and media independence in the country. the broad support for the establishment of a human rights council special rapporteur on belarus shows that the situation in the country is finally receiving increasing attention from the international community. i look forward to concrete proposals for solutions with regard to the regime of president lukashenka. i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. - i support the resolution for the 22nd session of the un human rights council. respect for and promotion of human rights is one of the pillars of the european union, and its engagement with the work of the un is a good example. to strengthen its position, the eu should speak with one voice against human rights violations in the world. it is also necessary to strengthen cooperation between eu member states and to further increase the eu's engagement in the international arena. despite these efforts, in many regions of the world there are flagrant violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms and crimes against civilians in armed conflicts. my particular concern is the situation in syria, mali, north korea and belarus. i am also concerned about the situation in israel and gaza. given the frequent cases of repression and intimidation of human rights defenders and political opposition activists, it is particularly important to ensure their effective protection and support. i would also like to draw attention to the alarming violations of the right to freedom of religion and belief and to discrimination and violence on religious grounds in many countries. christians have been victims of this many times. it is therefore necessary to put an end to discrimination and persecution against them.
in writing. - in this resolution we are focusing very strongly on the arab spring, with particular reference to syria. this is important. this is without a doubt one of the most important topics of recent times. unfortunately, there is no paragraph that shows the deteriorating situation of christians in syria. i have often mentioned their tragic situation in my interpellations. recently, in the village of yakobeh near aleppo, more than 300 christians were attacked by rebels and then fired upon by government troops trying to push islamists out of the aleppo region. the situation of christians in egypt and libya has been completely ignored. the human rights violations and the persecution of the democratic opposition in belarus and russia were completely ignored. i hope that the eu delegation will nevertheless mention them during their visit.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr mario mauro on the european investment bank (eib). as the eu's financial institution, it supports the sectors most affected by the crisis and provides favourable loans to create new jobs. i agree that the eib should focus on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. i also support the combination of eu budgetary resources and eib lending capacity, which should help to finance more efficiently projects supporting, among other things, the development of the economically weakest regions and the modernisation of enterprises. i believe that reducing the administrative burden on financial intermediaries and beneficiaries will greatly accelerate the process of granting loans. in addition, the eib's guarantee of more accurate data on loans and controls will have a positive impact on this process. in the context of the current budgetary arrangements, i consider it extremely important that the eib takes into account the priority objectives of the mff, i.e. research and development, the common agricultural policy, energy policy and environmental sustainability, when setting its lending policy.
in writing. - the eib's role has become very important for the future of the eu. it supports economic growth and employment. recently, there have been moves to increase discipline and supervision. however, there is a need to simultaneously pursue actions that lead to strong and sustained economic growth. europe must act to increase opportunities and growth that are inclusive, increase its capacity for innovation and strengthen, develop and scale up knowledge-based industries, etc. europe needs high-quality employment opportunities, a higher employment rate and improved productivity. beyond these actions, europe may face greater competitiveness from our trading partners. it is necessary to make use of closer and better cooperation between the eib and the commission. europe also needs to act globally in a coherent way, combining political, financial and trade aspects. the eib should contribute to external actions through its project finance capacity and expertise, in close partnership with the eeas, the european commission and other institutions.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on laos: the case of sombath somphone see minutes..
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it's just that sombath somphone isn't even a politician. his disappearance is not the result of his political activity, because we could understand - though not accept - if this was the way a political opponent was treated. he is a social activist, and his work should be supported by all political groups and by everyone here. i understand this as a special obligation, because supporting civil society is our job. we congratulate laos on its great economic performance, because it is indeed a greatly developing economy in that region, but laos must remember that part of international cooperation is also respecting human rights and finding those who are responsible for this kind of disappearance. i hope that everything ends well and that the lao authorities will take this into account.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. the situation in laos is a bit like the situation in china, which we don't talk about because in the european union there are double standards, double standards. we are more threatened by laos, because it is a small country with which we cannot trade, but we have a certain preferential tariff with china, because it is a major trading partner for many important countries of the european union. the situation is similar, because both china and laos are moving forward dynamically when it comes to economic issues, and when it comes to human rights, it's much worse. i disagree with my honourable predecessor, mr marek migalski, who said that the disappearance of politics could be understood, although it cannot be accepted. i think that the disappearance of politicians in different parts of the world is also a fatal thing, incomprehensible. but in the case of mr. somphone, it must be emphasized very strongly that our relationship with the laotian authorities should be seen through the lens of the laotian authorities' relationship with this man.
the question asked by raising a blue card addressed to richard czarnecki. i just wanted to ask, since i was called to the board, did mr. czarnecki understand what i said? it means i can understand something, even if i don't accept it. so i can understand the bad things that happen in the world, like politicians disappearing, but i absolutely do not accept them. did the ambassador get all this information in its entirety?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. in reply to mr migalski, i would like to say that this information has reached me. i understood his statement perfectly and i deeply, fundamentally disagree with it. the statement by a member of the european parliament - an institution that stands on the side of human rights, not only in europe, not only in the union, but all over the world - that we understand that a politician disappears, although we do not accept it, but we cannot understand that a social activist disappears, is something very dangerous, even encouraging - contrary to the intentions of the member of parliament, whom i know - the authorities of various countries to make politicians disappear there, but, god forbid, not to move social activists.
mr. chairman, please! recently, we have seen yet another example of the ruthless treatment of individuals who dare to think for themselves by the political authorities of a country. this is confirmed by the sad disappearance in laos of the great local socialist sombath somphone. and it's also worth asking who was this man who was so uncomfortable. well, he wasn't a politician, he wasn't an opposition activist -- everything he did was for the people, the poor people of rural laos. for many years, he has supported rural development by promoting organic farming and local crafts, and training young leaders to do the same grassroots work he did. and then he just disappeared into the street. we don't really know anything, because we're only getting bits and pieces of information. witnesses say the arrest was made by local police, which denies it, but knowing the political situation in laos, it is highly likely that the authorities are pulling all the strings there. it is good that the european parliament is concerned about the fate of people who are harmed and persecuted for their views, and that is why i am calling on the highest authorities in laos, including the president of that country, to take decisive action and clarify this disturbing matter. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8)).)
thank you very much for accepting my question. you began and ended your speech by blaming the lao government for the disappearance. and what we're talking about here is that we're calling on the government of laos to solve this problem as quickly as possible and to find this brave man. on what basis, as it may be of interest to all of us, do you claim so authoritatively in the opening and closing phases of your speech that the lao government is behind this disappearance?
the answer to the question posed by the blue card is in laos, the situation is only apparently so balanced and humane. there are situations where people die out there without a word. this is just one of the cases where a man who was not really a politician and who didn't really matter to anyone was killed just because he was inconveniencing the authorities, especially the authorities of the region where he was operating. you can find this news on the internet.
mr. chairman, please! it is always with concern and sadness that we hear of the abduction or kidnapping of a person in the context of criminal activity. but in a situation where a man is kidnapped, abducted and consequently disappears, a man who is engaged in social activities, a man who is a respected human rights activist, it is not enough to grieve, it is not enough to mourn, but it is necessary for the international community to react energetically and decisively. i am therefore pleased that we are discussing this today in the european parliament, which in itself is already making a certain amount of noise and has its own tone and accent. but that's not enough. we must put pressure on the lao authorities to respect fundamental human rights and to clarify the fate of this internationally respected and respected activist in their own community in a lawful manner. we hope that's what happens.
mr. chairman, please! we do not claim that the disappearance was caused by the actions of the authorities in that country, but the circumstances and conditions that prevail there, especially in terms of rights and freedoms, unfortunately impose this type of thesis and thinking. it's just a huge shadow over the entire state's operations. and that is why the european parliament's intervention and action is designed to give it credibility. it is in the interest of the lao government to clarify this matter, so that this allegation, this thinking, is only a hypothesis, not a brutal reality. we're not very efficient. the resources that the european parliament has allocated to external services are not only intended to serve representation and important economic interests, but also, and perhaps above all, because we have such a mission, freedom and human rights.
mr. chairman, please! we're dealing with two aspects of this case. the first, of course, is the personal drama of human rights activist sombath somphone, his family and loved ones. we call on the high representative to monitor this case and of course to intervene with the laotian authorities so that the investigation, the investigation into this case is carried out as quickly and as effectively as possible and that sombath somphone (winner of the prize called the asian nobel prize) can return home and continue his work. and the second aspect is, of course, a general one. the communist regime in laos continues to tolerate no political opponents, no tolerance for those who speak about human rights, and no respect for basic human rights, freedom of press, media, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly, freedom of science or minority rights. we should talk about that, too. and it's very good - i'm very happy about it - that we as the european parliament are dealing with this.
the debate is closed. the vote will be held at the end of the debates.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on detention of human rights activists in zimbabwe see minutes..
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the 1980's, the famous polish cartoonist and satirist andrzej mleczko created a drawing. this drawing was of a man with the wind in his eyes, waiting for something in a neglected area. and the man thinks, "mountains, seas, forests, fields... what a beautiful country this could be!" it was obviously ironic then. this scene reminds me of zimbabwe. it could be a beautiful country. it could be a country that helps its neighbors and is a role model. unfortunately, that's not the case. to do so, human rights activists must not be persecuted, human rights must be respected, the judiciary must be impartial and independent, and elections must be fair, free and democratic. zimbabwe should also respect its international obligations. these are not standards that are unattainable. if poland has become a beautiful country, zimbabwe can become one too.
on behalf of the s&d group. on january 14, a few weeks after zimrights, a human rights organization in zimbabwe, appealed to the government to stop the brutal policies of the local police, acts of violence and flagrant human rights violations, the head of zimrights was arrested on charges of alleged fraud and publishing false documents to the detriment of the state. several other members of the organization were arrested with him. this is just one of many cases of intimidation, harassment and arrests of human rights defenders in zimbabwe. unfortunately, such practices are rampant in the country, and this is causing great concern in the local and international communities. the european union condemns all repressive acts against ngo activists and should put pressure on the zimbabwean authorities to release the illegally detained citizens immediately. let us remember that freedom of assembly, association and expression are the foundation of democracy, which the government of this country has committed to upholding in the global political agreement, the gpa. the zimbabwean authorities must take immediate steps to restore respect for the rule of law and create conditions conducive to the holding of free, fair and transparent elections.
on behalf of the ecr group. while in the previous discussion on laos we were not clear about who was to blame for this situation, or at least we could have had reasonable doubts, here you are right there is no doubt. it is zanu pf and mugabe himself who are responsible for what is happening there. we have here a clear and explicit example of discrimination against the opposition, especially in the form of the mdc, the opposition group. those who are in prison are in prison because that is the decision of the political authorities, and in that sense the situation is clear, although it is not simple. member kaczmarek, one of the co-authors of the resolution, was right when he said that zimbabwe could be a beautiful country. but to make zimbabwe a beautiful country, we need the help of the international community, including the european parliament. i hope that this resolution and the further action of the european union and the european parliament will help to ensure that the zimbabwean community gets what it truly deserves, a life of prosperity and peace.
on behalf of the efd group. unfortunately, zimbabwe is an example of a country where a ruthless dictator, in order to maintain power, does not hesitate to use measures that contradict fundamental principles and infringe basic human rights. it is very sad that the state apparatus is increasingly violent in this country. it is very sad that people are being arrested, detained and even detained without any reason or legal justification (which is often just a pretext) just because they want to remind themselves of basic human rights, basic civil liberties. we are obliged to put a stop to this situation. we cannot accept that a dictator who impoverishes his beautiful country and bullies his people should do so with impunity and without any consequences, without any stigma attached to such actions. hence the full justification of the resolution.
the question asked by raising a blue card addressed to zbigniew ziobra. the honourable member was gracious enough to speak about the need to tighten up the situation in zimbabwe, that this is a necessary condition, that this pressure is needed. the european parliament has repeatedly spoken on this issue. we hear that some european institutions are even willing to withdraw sanctions against zimbabwe. in this context, do you think that the european parliament's resolutions will have enough power to persuade the zimbabwean authorities and mr mugabe, who are currently deaf, to make the changes that are important to us in that country?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. certainly, past actions, not the first, have shown that this kind of pressure is not effective. but just because it's not effective doesn't mean it shouldn't be done. we must of course act internationally, seeking partners also among those african countries which are organized in the framework of the cooperation that the honourable member has mentioned, so that they can give the european union support in this matter and not take action on their own, which is what this firm and unequivocal condemnation by the european parliament calls into question. especially with the upcoming elections in zimbabwe, we need to be consistent and find partners to support us in this.
two explanations. first, questions by raising the blue card were sometimes asked before the next speaker was assigned a voice, so it is not a question of responding to a late question. and the second point is this: during the debate there will be no questions from the chamber, because i also know that the commissioner has a deadline to leave, so we are speeding up the debate. we have a few reports on the 'catch the eye' but i think that because of your earlier participation in the debate, we will limit them to those who have not yet taken part in the 'catch the eye' procedure. comments from the court
mr. chairman, please! political persecution of human rights defenders continues in zimbabwe. what happened to the leading activist and director of a key human rights organization recently is the result of the president's ongoing campaign against ngos that speak openly and forcefully about the deteriorating human rights situation in zimbabwe. the charges against okaya machisa were made to undermine his reputation and his work. the recent rise in persecution and the intensification of the policy of intimidation against such activists is directly linked to the upcoming elections and the escalation of political tensions. human rights defenders are seen as key critics of the state and therefore considered too dangerous by the authorities, especially in the run-up to elections. such events should cause public concern. the authorities are persecuting citizens who are uncomfortable with them, and this is a serious violation of human rights. we can't tolerate this kind of thing.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debates. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on recent attacks on medical aid workers in pakistan see minutes..
the author. - in pakistan, the threat to the lives of humanitarian workers has increased dramatically in recent times. last december, nine health workers responsible for organizing a national polio vaccination campaign were killed in tribal areas in the northwestern part of the country. a month later, seven other volunteers were shot dead by a group of armed islamists. the attacks are being carried out by islamic militant groups who believe that aid workers are western spies trying to take over the region. these events have once again confirmed the common perception that pakistan is one of the most difficult and dangerous places in the world for humanitarian workers. worse, these attacks target the most vulnerable, children, effectively blocking polio vaccination efforts in various parts of the country. any acts of violence against the defenseless people whose mission is to help the people of pakistan must be strongly condemned! it's one of only three countries in the world where polio is endemic. therefore, for the sake of their own people, the authorities of this country must immediately take the necessary steps to ensure the safety of the medical personnel so that the aid to those in need can continue without putting their lives at risk.
on behalf of the ecr group. the issue of what happened in pakistan recently is not an individual issue. international media has reported on such cases before and of course we can talk about islamist crimes, but let's not be hypocritical, let's not be hypocritical but we also have to point out some inaction of the pakistani authorities in this matter. they are not able to guarantee the safety of these people who are fighting polio and all kinds of diseases in this country. and i think we shouldn't limit our thinking to just criminal islamists. it's a fact. i also wanted to say that this is another situation in pakistan recently where it is clearly evident that the authorities of that country are unable to react to what is happening on their soil. and finally, a request to the commissioner. but why don't you come back on the next train and let those who want to speak about the affairs of the people of pakistan speak in the question-and-answer session? your train may not run, and i think the affairs of pakistan and the people who are there are so important, so vital, that... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. postle, what are you doing? i'm the one who's having this debate. what you just did was very unseemly. i'm sorry we sit in this chamber on behalf of the same country.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. we condemn all attacks on humanitarian workers, but it is particularly important that we are dealing with attacks on medical workers, especially when it comes to a disease as deadly as polio. diseases that are epidemic in pakistan, and especially when this campaign involves several thousand people, and it involves vaccinating children, millions of children that could be protected. what do you make of that? of course, we must call on the pakistani authorities to punish the guilty, and we must call on them to provide the best possible protection for those who provide medical care. but it is a call (the second) both to pakistan and to us as the european union to be able to give some of the funds allocated to pakistan to educational activities, to educate the pakistani people that vaccines are not dangerous, they are not sterilization threats, they are not directed against their religion. that's something we should think about.
if the statements were not based on real documents, it would be hard to believe that such horrible, cruel acts are being committed against health workers, people who are helping and rescuing children. we know that polio is a terrible disease. we know that it causes terrible suffering to those who unfortunately fall victim to it. and if polio vaccination is being suppressed, which leads to extreme violence -- murder, killing of doctors and nurses -- that is a very terrible thing and shows what extremism, fanaticism can lead to and what, unfortunately, a demoralized group of people can lead to, who, under the slogans of religion, islam, are willing to murder others, are willing to murder doctors. that's why we must protest strongly on this matter. we have to be very firm about this and we have to put people who do this in prison.
mr. chairman, please! while condemning the bloody and senseless attacks by the taliban on aid workers in pakistan, we must emphasize that the victims are not just the dozens of aid workers, but above all the hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of children who are prevented or hindered from accessing medical aid and polio vaccinations. it is very important that we encourage the pakistani authorities to launch an information campaign on polio vaccination, which could involve local leaders, in order to increase the level of trust of the pakistani public in the entire vaccination program. we are aware of the efforts made by the pakistani authorities to improve the safety of medical workers in the most dangerous regions, but we cannot fail to call on them to bring the perpetrators of these attacks to justice. this will also contribute to the effectiveness of humanitarian action in the country.
mr. chairman, please! is the pakistani government the right address? because the greatest tragedy is not the actions of the bad people, but the silence and passivity of the good people and those entities that should be working for security. this case we're talking about is not an episode. this is another -- and we fear not the last -- example of an attack that is particularly repulsive and barbaric, because attacking defenseless children and women is a terrible thing, but attacking people who are helping them, who are providing medical care, has been particularly condemned in the history of civilization. and that is why the european parliament must first of all address this voice to the pakistani government, which, not only on this issue but on many others, is raising serious concerns in the international community about whether it is in control of the situation. it is a nuclear weapon state, and democracy and standards in such a state should be particularly close to us and particularly important to us.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the end of the debates. written statements (rule 149)
in writing. i am deeply concerned by the recent killings of health workers from ngos and doctors in the pakistani health service, including women. these services have been involved in the polio vaccination programme for pakistani children. the killings that took place forced the world health organization and unicef to suspend their vaccination campaigns in fear for the safety of their workers in pakistan. refusing these vaccinations deprives these children of access to basic life-saving medical care and puts them at risk of lifelong disability if they become ill. attacks on women are particularly reprehensible because they are a public demonstration of the attitude that women have no right to work outside the home. in my heart of grief for the families of the victims of these attacks, i call on the government of pakistan to bring to justice those responsible for these crimes. i also express my admiration for the entire medical community who, despite the risks, continue to work in pakistan and help the citizens of pakistan, especially the children.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
that concludes the vote.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. stereotypes are both the cause and the effect of discrimination. we often don't realize they exist because we've been raised as "nice and kind girls" or "strong and brave boys". we face a strong social penalty for challenging stereotypical behavior. a particularly negative role in gender stereotypes is played by the sexist culture in which we live, which perpetuates the belief in the superiority of men. stereotypes introduce a bipolar division of society: if a trait is attributed to women, then the opposite is attributed to men, e.g. weak versus strong, regardless of personal potential, personality, sensitivity, education. stereotypes in the labour market are particularly dangerous because they perpetuate horizontal and vertical segregation; they are responsible for the glass ceiling that blocks advancement to higher positions, the sticky floor that keeps women in low-price, low-paid jobs, and the glass walls that make it difficult to escape from a position. the key to fighting stereotypes is education and training. thank you, sir.
blue-card question. – where do you see these quotas for management positions in companies? they do not exist; we are fighting for them. we are trying to implement this, but i do not think that there are many quotas in place. perhaps there are isolated cases, but it is not systematic. i do not think that men are being persecuted in that sense.
the economic crisis has unfortunately widened the gap between women and men. this is most evident in the labour market, with increased job insecurity, the forced entry of women into part-time work, and the large number of redundancies in female-dominated sectors - for example in the public sector, where fiscal consolidation is leading to job cuts in both the administration and the public services and public assistance sectors. add to this the fact that women are blocked from advancing and the persisting gender pay gap is exacerbating the situation for women. gender equality therefore remains a challenge for the european union, especially in times of crisis. i believe that the new priorities for equality between women and men set out by the commission will be implemented and will have a positive impact on the improvement of the situation of women in both the public and private spheres.
in writing. – hit by the economic crisis, many governments across the eu have found adjustment measures and cuts to public services and social benefits to be the only way of reducing the fiscal deficit. most of the austerity policies target wages of employees in the public sector, child benefit, healthcare, maternity leave, pensions, education, free school meals, etc. since women are mostly employed in the public sector, and are the main benefactors of social allowances, the applied measures disproportionately affected them and have further contributed to increasing gender inequalities across the eu. on the occasion of international women’s day, on 8 march, we must make a strong commitment and ensure eu employment and economic policies take into account gender equality goals and commitments. some of the ways of achieving this, based on the current report, are investments in education and training – both initial and lifelong – in order to be able to adjust to changes in the labour market. moreover, using the european social fund and other eu programmes would enable greater social integration of women through employment. women have an important role to play in exiting the current crisis. recognizing and promoting their role is not a cost, but an investment.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and his shadow rapporteurs for their dedicated, competent and successful work, which also involves the council and the cyprus presidency. they have put together a package that is important for europe's energy strategies in a considerable amount of time. whether you want to optimise security of supply, whether you want to use increasing shares of renewable energy in the electricity sector, whether you want to show solidarity in an emergency, whether you want to strengthen competition and thus the consumer, infrastructure is the necessary basis for this. we have a very good infrastructure in europe with our railways, our motorways and road networks, our european airspace with hubs and regional airports, our sea ports, our inland ports and also in the digital world of information and communication. when you compare the quality and capacity of our roads and railways, our airspace and our digital world with our gas and electricity networks, we are not anywhere near as well positioned for gas and electricity as we are for the transport of goods, goods and citizens in europe. we have an intact oil infrastructure, an intact infrastructure to transport biomass, bioenergy and also coal, and we now have to catch up in gas and electricity with what is possible for all the other goods, goods and services in europe in quality and capacity. firstly, it is a question of transnational planning. the old world, that was the power plant by the river, whether it was coal or nuclear, the cooling by the water, the web into the region like a spider web to the consumer at work and at home. the new world is a transfrontier, pan-european world, which includes the member states, but also countries such as norway, switzerland, the western balkans, ukraine, turkey and other european countries participating in our energy community. we have concrete plans for crossborder infrastructure development in larger regions, whether we mean the north sea countries or the mediterranean countries, central europe or countries on the periphery. secondly, we must work with all those involved to define projects of common interest, projects which are important for more than one member state. the commission will present its list of priorities in the summer, on the basis of which the council and parliament will decide on the priorities for the next few years. every two years we will continue the list, in close cooperation with the regulators, the transmission system operators, the national ministers responsible, the european energy industry, in order to determine in the coming years the order in which gas pipelines, electricity networks and bridges should be developed across the borders of the member states. this is to meet the mandate of completing the single market by the end of 2014 and bringing isolated islands countries not integrated into the european market out of their isolation in 2015 and linking them with their european neighbours, such as malta, cyprus, the baltic states and others. we have two major challenges. first, the planning time until approval, and second, the funding. with what you have just produced, we want to reduce the planning time for the determination of a route, for the determination of the laying of the line up to the official approval of the pipeline or the transmission network from currently - as the rapporteur reports - normally ten, twelve, fifteen years to a maximum of three and a half years. in three and a half years, if you have enough staff, you can make all the trade-offs. the question of environmental and landscape protection, the question of interference with the landscape, the distance requirement for settlements, all these questions can be resolved in three and a half years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on the contrary, after 10 to 12 years, acceptance is often much lower than in a coherent and intensive consultation process which takes three and a half years. then there is the financing: we anticipate the necessary investment in energy infrastructure in the european union of some 200 billion euros over the next few years. first of all, the funding must come from the market, which means that the regulators are needed. what interest, what compensation do i give to the person who invests in networks and pipelines? this is always a trade-off between the interests of consumers, who want to have the lowest possible cost of electricity and gas, and the interests of investors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. investors have offers beyond the energy sector, in real estate, in industry, in other sectors of the economy and in infrastructure outside europe. we are competing with the new airport in istanbul, with a power plant in brazil or with an auto plant in china. we have to be attractive! that is why we need a clear and convincing european plan. the citizens and the investors must be made to understand that this pipeline is a business because it has become part of our european energy strategy. then the connecting europe facility. in recent years we have had experience of co-financing european energy infrastructure. the crisis programme you gave us a few years ago was the basis for some 800 million euros a year of co-financing. we are now building on the fact that there will be more than eur 5 billion available in the next multiannual budgetary framework for connecting europe in the area of energy infrastructure. we want to work with project bonds, we want to use the eib, we want to use national public structural banks as partners, we want to give interest rate subsidies, we want to give guarantees so that co-financing in euros and cents is not the only instrument and a toolbox can be intelligent and provide the right leverage for the individual case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank parliament and the rapporteurs in particular once again. a year ago, it was unthinkable that this would work. we have now made great strides towards a pan-european energy infrastructure for electricity and gas with the package which parliament is about to adopt.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. in the context of the opinion on the guidelines for cross-border energy infrastructure, the committee on transport draws attention to the european energy policy, which needs above all stability, competitiveness and security of supply of energy sources, thus ensuring benefits for the smooth functioning of the transport sector of the european union. i believe that in order to develop energy infrastructure as well as transport infrastructure more efficiently, full compatibility between the projects of both infrastructures should be ensured. to this end, the authorising authorities should grant permits jointly for such projects, for example in the field of the environment. in order to develop transport efficiently in the european union, we also need easier access to raw materials. the natural gas transmission infrastructure, regional lng terminals and rail and freight transport are worth mentioning. in the context of the current revitalisation and shaping of the newly created energy infrastructure, we should bear in mind that stable and flexible national transmission networks remain an important element of the development of the energy infrastructure. thank you, sir.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. − european regions must be regarded as equal partners in the process of locating and implementing trans-european energy investments and benefit from them on an equal footing at every stage. only an open and transparent public consultation process can minimise the social and economic costs of an investment. the committee on regional development sees investment in trans-european energy networks as an important opportunity to deepen the economic integration of the european union. however, to achieve this, the role of local and regional authorities in the planning and implementation of individual projects needs to be strengthened and the bureaucratic burden on businesses and other actors who will then implement them reduced. it is also important for us that all forms of eu aid to project promoters be granted on the basis of the expected costs to energy consumers, in order to avoid the socialisation of costs and the commercialisation of profits. finally, the trans-european energy networks should treat the distribution of energy from renewable sources in a non-discriminatory manner.
i'm not going to let you do this. you mentioned that there are major backlogs in europe in terms of gas and electricity connections. i agree with that completely. you also said that it was necessary to invest in a smart way. i think smart investing is when you're in the greatest need and the greatest backlog. i would like to say that central and eastern europe, the baltic countries, this whole region has the least gas, electricity, interconnectors. that's where you have to focus your attention. because, for example, there are seven pipelines connecting belgium and france, and zero connecting poland and slovakia. the same can be said of other energy sources. so in choosing and changing priorities -- because cutting money, cutting resources, will require some redefining of some issues -- i would like to ask you to focus on those regions that are a little bit desert. thank you very much. thank you.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. − mr president, on the external dimension of energy: the geopolitics of energy are changing, new producers are emerging and resources like shale gas are become more equally distributed, more diversified and the markets more liquid. we may soon see a global democratisation of energy, but we are not there yet, nor is the european union’s energy security guaranteed. the eu must therefore respond to the changing energy landscape in planning its energy policy up to 2050. gas – thanks to global shale evolution – and the increasing role of energy, is likely to play a much more long-term and prominent role in europe’s energy mix than the commission assumes in its energy roadmap, also allowing for greater emission reduction. also, the european commission’s over-optimistic assumptions on achieving globally-negotiated climate targets should be accompanied by a scenario b, in case the outcome is less positive. the eu’s external energy policy must be reinforced. we do have instruments like internal market competition law, the energy community treaty and the enp. it is good that growing external energy competence is happening, but we should go further and think of coordinating energy purchasing from outside the union and even go towards joint purchasing.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - first of all, i would like to thank mrs tzaveli very much for her cooperation, for the conversation, for the atmosphere in which this report was prepared. the commissioner said that it was very important to have a long-term perspective. the horizon is important for consumers and investors alike. however, the number of amendments, submissions and scenarios contained in this report leads to a 'sneak' which is, of course, characteristic of many reports in the european parliament. so there's something for everyone there - supporters of nuclear, renewable and coal - and that's good, because that's the energy basket we need in europe. and that's why the decisions we make today will have a huge impact on our future. and so i'm afraid that we're facing challenges today that the document doesn't address, because it can't address them very well. on the one hand, we have the uncontrolled expansion of german renewable energy, which has led to a situation where many gas-fired power plants are simply shut down. common eu rules on the power market, on support for renewable energy, and work on the communityisation of this market are needed to make this future policy also common.
on behalf of the ecr group. the report we are presenting is the result of extremely difficult negotiations and an extremely difficult compromise, which unfortunately has been and is being challenged in this chamber. this is why we cannot agree to the wording of article 91, which means a radical tightening of climate policy, which entails raising the costs for all energy-intensive industries, such as paper, chemicals, fertilisers for agriculture, glass, steel for plants that compete at the same time with similar plants in china, russia, canada or the usa. in the context of free trade talks, this is particularly important, even more important than usual. total decarbonisation, which is mentioned in the report, is one of the european superstitions that has nothing to do with the energy reality - also in our part of the world. analysts estimate that by 2035, more than half of our energy will come from fossil fuels. hence, political discrimination against fossil fuels is not only unrealistic, but also has very negative consequences for our industry, blocks the necessary investment in energy, deprives the market of the necessary stability and is ultimately the main reason why energy in europe is the most expensive in the world.
in writing. the main objective of the proposed regulation is decarbonisation. the question is: does the economy need this, and is it better that efficiency gains - as the main goal - lead to decarbonisation? the claim that renewables will account for 75 to 97% of energy in 2050 and that co2 emissions will be reduced accordingly is unfounded. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted through state resources. there is also no energy infrastructure project, and the legislation itself does not prohibit it. the second objective (after efficiency) should be energy security, which has been declining in recent years, not decarbonisation. in addition, the ets should be improved by means of a co2 absorption premium, e.g. for agriculture and forestry. i also think we need to pay more attention to geothermal energy. the eu cannot create an energy sector which is already uncompetitive on a global scale and reduces our overall competitiveness.
in writing. for me, as a miner and a member of parliament, the most worrying thing is the short-sighted approach. i believe that the role of fossil fuels in ensuring the european union's energy security should no longer be marginalized. coal should not be treated as a 'dirty fuel' but as a common good for citizens, and we should work together to optimise existing technologies and develop new ones that reduce the burden on the environment. the european commission's approach also fails to recognise that the key pillar of energy security is the reliance on and easy access to energy resources in the eu member states. it is therefore most rational from this point of view for countries to develop those energy technologies in which they have the greatest potential and experience. and those that guarantee a continuous supply of stable and cheap energy. i thank the rapporteur for reminding the european commission that it is up to the member states to define their own energy mix.
in writing. it is worth repeating with commissioner tajani: europe needs reindustrialisation today. it needs new jobs and a lasting economic recovery. the key factor determining the economic competitiveness and investment attractiveness of individual countries for industry is first and foremost the price of electricity, which largely determines the cost of production. the dynamics of global economic change and the economic competitiveness of individual countries are thus linked to current and expected electricity costs. so if we want to catch up with asia and america today, we need to focus more on actions to bring down prices. the key is to abandon the blind and ineffective energy and climate policy aimed at further reducing co2 emissions. that is why we cannot agree with many of the points made in the report by mrs tzaveli.
on behalf of the ppe group. i think that this action of testing extreme conditions, which will lead to the preparation of the directive and guide the further work of the european commission, is a great example of joint action for the safety of citizens, joint action of many countries and harmonisation of this work by the commission. that is why we should support them, even if some countries claim that this is their own competence. i believe that the safety of our citizens is our common good. what the commission is doing on this issue, these results of the tests under extreme conditions, are also important for countries that are just starting to build nuclear power stations, because in every country there are certain concerns, there is opposition, and in this situation we will be able to show that we care, we work, that certain nium standards are guaranteed in this matter. i would therefore ask the commission to put more emphasis on contacts with the countries neighbouring the european union. the commissioner mentioned that there were extreme conditions tests in ukraine. besides ukraine, there are other countries that are currently planning and building power plants. the cost issue can be a barrier to them. so they may want to take shortcuts, build in cheaper ways, hence the call for collaboration.
in writing. the draft resolution we are discussing today is a summary of the eu's grand project of putting european nuclear power plants through stress tests, i.e. tests of their resilience to extreme risks such as earthquakes, tsunamis, power cuts and core meltdowns. the safety inspections of 147 nuclear reactors in 15 member states, switzerland and ukraine are already a major success. the endurance testing procedure itself, consisting of a three-stage test process, has allowed to achieve verifiable data reflecting the actual safety level of the facility. the results of the tests were not as bad as those opposed to nuclear power had predicted. no closure of any power plant was requested and the recommendations made by the control authorities were mostly limited to making certain modifications, installing external power generators and training staff in emergency procedures. it is commendable that the resolution states that these tests were only for extreme situations and cannot replace the detailed safety checks carried out in such establishments. it is also very appropriate to call on the community to take all possible measures to prevent radioactive waste from being deposited in areas where there is a high risk of natural disasters. the concept of sharing and implementing good practices in the field of renewable energy generation should also be supported. in conclusion, i would say that this is a very good document and one that deserves our support.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all let me express my sincere appreciation to the two rapporteurs, kriton arsenis and bas eickhout, the secretariat and the many shadow rapporteurs for their hard work on these two legislative proposals. thanks to what i believe has been excellent and efficient cooperation between the three institutions, including the very committed work done by the cypriot presidency, we are able to conclude the legislative procedure with first-reading agreement on both files. on lulucf, we have, overall, been able to secure an outcome that is an important step forward in meeting our international commitments and in developing our climate policy. the compromise meets the main objectives of the commission proposal: it is in line with the respective decision taken in the international climate talks in durban and ensures the full implementation of the international requirements under the unfccc and the kyoto protocol both now and towards 2020. it will allow harmonised accounting for the greenhouse gas emissions and removals from the lulucf sector. including this sector in the national accounts of the member states closes an important gap and ensures that in the future all sectors can contribute to the mitigation of climate change. the outcome strikes a good balance, as it reflects and safeguards concerns of landowners while confirming the high level of ambition desired by the commission and interested parties. on the two most important political aspects of the commission’s proposal, the compromise firstly ensures full mandatory accounting for agricultural activities, starting with the period from 2020 onwards, but already sets in place a more gradual approach for accounting for these activities during the period up to 2020. this should be seen as a first step and as part of the greater effort needed to collect data on agricultural land. secondly, it ensures the framework for shedding light on member states’ lulucf actions in order to enhance best practices and to collect information which could feed into further steps for regulating the lulucf sector in the future. this decision is also a central piece of legislation for a sustainable bioeconomy. by including greenhouse gas accounting from the lulucf sector into eu law and setting out a roadmap to advance the methodologies and systems to track greenhouse gases related to agricultural soils, we are making sure that emissions and removal related to biomass use and carbon sequestration are fully reflected in the eu’s accounts. as regards the next steps, swift implementation of the decision will be important to enhance our knowledge of this sector. my services will of course be in close contact with the member states to discuss what needs to be done and when it needs to be done. furthermore, let me highlight that the first article of the lulucf decision points out that this is only a first step. the next step is related to the question of how and when emissions and removals from the lulucf sector can be included in the union’s emission reduction commitment. to conclude, this decision on lulucf is an important milestone and fills a gap in our domestic climate policy. it will greatly facilitate a debate on what role this sector should play in the eu’s future climate policy. i would like to make a few remarks on the mmr, where the commission’s proposal was intended firstly to improve the current monitoring and reporting mechanism, secondly to fully implement the monitoring and reporting requirements set out in the 2009 climate and energy package, thirdly to provide a solid basis for implementation of the union and member states’ international obligations until the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, and lastly, to create the means for future monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and the further development of eu climate change policies. the commission is convinced that the compromise text as agreed meets those objectives. we acknowledge that not all issues were addressed in line with the level of ambition we had initially proposed. in particular this is the case for some issues linked to the reporting on low carbon development strategies, climate finance, reporting frequency and a broader mandate for the adoption of delegated and implementing acts. as part of the agreement, the commission therefore agreed to make two statements, which will be transmitted to your services for inclusion in the minutes. the commission nevertheless welcomes this compromise text because it provides the tools the union and the member states need to continue playing a pivotal role in the international effort to keep the temperature increase below 2°c, minimise the impact of climate change and ensure full and effective implementation of their international and eu obligations. in the coming years the commission, in collaboration with the member states and keeping the european parliament fully informed, will closely monitor the application of the mmr and, where that application is not satisfactory or where the level of ambition should be further raised, consider various options to address those issues, including the introduction of new codecision proposals. let me conclude by hoping that tomorrow’s vote will show strong support for both agreements. i think real steps forward are being made here.
the question is asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask the honourable member, with respect for the sensitivity of the climate change issue: as a representative of the socialist group, are you not afraid and do you not see a causal link between the excessive commitment of the european union to reducing co2 emissions and the growing crisis and rising unemployment? do you not see the link, the dependence, that large companies are moving production outside europe, to countries that are not concerned with reducing co2 emissions, such as the countries of the former soviet union, the asian countries, the usa, where europe and its labour market are losing out? you're a socialist, so i'd like to know if this is important to you.
a uniform system defining reporting obligations and accounting methods for greenhouse gas emissions is clearly necessary. however, i believe that the specific legal framework should be balanced. in determining this type of regulation, account should be taken of the different conditions in the member states as well as their international commitments - in this case, those relating to climate conventions. at the same time, double reporting of emissions and removals under the climate convention and unnecessary additional administrative costs should be avoided. proportionality and consistency with the conditions and priorities of the member states and existing international law are desirable. i therefore support the amendments to the report, in particular those clarifying the definitions and the detailed provisions on the definition of forests, and also setting out the commission's powers in the legislative process.
thank you, mr. chairman! climate policy is becoming a key element for the development of the economies of the individual countries of the european union. in the face of distortions of competition in terms of production and the complete dominance of the far east, resulting from the dumping policies of these countries and the lack of a policy of social protection for workers there, production costs have been reduced in a way that is not comparable to the european union. this made it uncompetitive. it is clear that the area of competitiveness which is the european union's concern is primarily energy costs. the united states understands this very well, and by developing its shale gas market and implementing its climate policy, it has become a competitor to the far east. we cannot hold back the development of countries by imposing irrational climate policies. thank you, sir.
in the context of the work on the agreement between the european community and ukraine on visa facilitation and the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of the member states, i would like to call for the abolition of visas for ukrainian nationals to be considered. this decision would create the necessary impetus for the development of the eastern partnership and would bring the european union into social sympathy in the east, which is so close culturally to our united europe. as a resident of eastern poland, i believe that the abolition of visas for ukraine will facilitate the reform process, the modernization or strengthening of civil society in this country, not to mention economic development, tourism or savings associated with the liquidation of the extensive consular structure. therefore, i appeal: abolish visas for citizens of ukraine!
the rapporteur. - thank you very much, madam president! commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am very pleased to present to you the final result of almost a year's work on the resolution of consumer disputes. the regulation and directive which i am sure the european parliament will adopt today will be the cure for many of the problems that consumers and businesses are facing in our european market today. the project we have developed together with the co-rapporteurs (thank you), dg sanco of the european commission (thank you), the polish, danish and cypriot presidencies (also thank you) is truly european. we want both consumers and businesses - 500 million citizens - to benefit from the entire european market, from the huge range of goods from 27 countries. in the last 12 months, only 10% of consumers have bought any goods or services online from abroad. one of the main reasons for this is a lack of trust, but with the odr platform, consumers will no longer have to worry about buying goods and services on foreign websites, because even if something goes wrong, we can be sure that we will resolve the matter in their own language. after all, there is no well-functioning market without consumer trust in entrepreneurs and vice versa. this trust, especially in cross-border transactions, will gradually grow. the fair settlement of consumer disputes, or adr, which was developed by my colleague mr louis grech - whom i also thank very much for his cooperation - is being built on the existing parts of the arbitration, mediation and conciliation systems in the member states. the directive will complement these systems in all sectors, improve their quality and speed up the resolution of disputes, which will be a major challenge to the judicial systems in the member states. today, in europe, the average time for a court to decide a commercial dispute is about 450 days, whereas under the new system it will take at most 90 days. the advantage of non-judicial systems over traditional ones is, among other things, their amicable nature, since after a settlement has been reached, the parties can return to commercial relations and there are no winners and losers, as is often the case in court. i am very pleased that we have succeeded in making this initiative more federal and more european than the commission had proposed. the platform will not only handle cross-border disputes but also domestic disputes. this will make the platform more compatible with the virtual reality, where there are no physical boundaries. not only consumers but also businesses will be able to benefit from it. it was absolutely crucial for me to simplify the platform for consumers and make it more understandable and easier to use. we will see how well it has worked in a couple of months, but i am glad we agreed that before citizens can use it, the commission has a duty to test it with business and consumer organisations and to report to the european parliament. i hope that together we can ensure that the tool that citizens will be able to use is fully in line with their expectations. and finally, for this project to succeed, information for consumers is essential. our citizens need to know where to find information about online dispute resolution. we all need to be involved in this process: the internet service providers, us members of parliament, the european commission your europe website, so that citizens can really benefit from this new instrument. thank you, and i look forward to an interesting debate.
i would like to thank very warmly mr thun for his report. the introduction of alternative methods of settling consumer disputes is highly desirable in the face of increasing trade between operators from different member states. this is particularly true for online transactions. what matters today is the speed and ease of pursuing claims. therefore, it is a good idea to create an online dispute resolution platform that allows the transfer of a significant part of the cases to cyberspace, which will increase the convenience of operations and save valuable business time. it is worth noting that the possibility of lodging complaints also extends to entrepreneurs. it is essential for such a platform to be fully functional and effective that it encourages consumers to use its solutions. ensuring that the system is free of charge and that it is accessible in all the languages of the union is fundamental here. the possible extension of the scope of the regulation to national disputes would be a positive development, especially in countries such as poland, where consumer protection still leaves much to be desired. i hope this tool will spread quickly with measurable benefits to the citizens.
the rapporteur. - thank you, colleagues, for this debate. i'll end with a thoughtful note. today, we are building and strengthening europe with concrete projects like this one on out-of-court dispute settlement. citizens have become accustomed very quickly to peace, democracy and an open continent without internal borders, including in this part of europe where i come from. for the next generation, it's important what we talk about today. today, we are expected - by the european parliament, by the european commission - to quickly remove the remaining barriers that prevent us - consumers, businesses - from taking full advantage of the single market. and there are still many barriers, and there is still much work to be done. even in online commerce alone, which we've talked about so much here today, we don't have a european parcel market, which makes cross-border shopping difficult and expensive. we still pay a lot for roaming, although we have managed to bring the price down considerably, and there are many other barriers ahead. however, today, with the adoption of this regulation and the adr and odr directive, we are setting a milestone for the relaunching of the internal market. thank you for that, commissioner. i fully agree with them and believe in continuing to do good work for consumers and businesses in the european union.
the question asked by raising the blue card. in poland, a court recently handed down a symbolic sentence against the leader of a satanic band who tore a bible and used aggressive, vulgar language against christians at a public concert. unfortunately, the european commission, represented here today by commissioner reding, has reacted to this situation by defending the leader of this team and criticising the polish court for violating european values. i ask you: do you think the commission should also defend such artists, satanic bands, who carve the koran or the torah? is this in line with european values?
thank you very much, mr. chairman! i agree with commissioner reding and minister creigthon that racism, xenophobia and simple hatred on religious or political grounds are unfortunately a constant feature of the european union. the economic crisis and high unemployment, especially among young people, are fuelling the development of radical views and attitudes. this makes it all the more important to be aware of what is happening in the european public debate. there is no doubt that any manifestation of aggression based on racial, ethnic, religious, or political differences must be firmly opposed. but even reacting harshly to excesses is not enough. we have to respond to incitement of hatred. we need to stop hate speech. in my country, poland, work has just begun on tightening the penal code for hate crimes based on national, ethnic, racial, political and social affiliation, but also natural or acquired personal characteristics or beliefs. our resolution focuses on calling on the governments of the member states and the european institutions to do just that. but let us be aware that they will never be effective without social support. this requires a broad coalition of ngos and independent organisations, such as sports federations. we know that european football stadiums are a place for racist and xenophobic aggressive attitudes and behaviour. this is why the uefa initiative 'football against racism in europe' is so important. the european institutions should support such actions, they should cooperate with uefa and any organisation that is determined to fight racism and xenophobia in their area. thank you, sir.
european energy policy still fails to meet the needs of energy security and security of supply. the problem is the lack of full energy integration in the union. this leads to huge and widening differences in average energy prices, with a direct impact on the costs of industry in general. meanwhile, we're focusing on reducing greenhouse gas emissions instead of taking broad action to diversify our supply. in supporting the resolution, i count on the benefits of accelerating the completion of the internal energy market. this is particularly relevant for a number of countries that are dependent on one of the energy suppliers. this pathological situation calls for urgent and decisive action, since it is in the interest of all of us to level the playing field between the member states. the diversification of sources will bring benefits to the economy of the community as a whole.
in writing. − energy infrastructure sharing projects are an important element in the process of strengthening european energy efficiency. the commission still has an important task to perform, namely to harmonise national networks with trans-european infrastructure. cooperation with member states will be needed. it's about harmonizing in time and space. parliament will monitor the implementation of this report, especially in the context of the new multiannual financial framework. my concern is that the draft multiannual financial framework proposed by the council may prevent real progress.
in writing. −equal access for all to sustainable, safe, secure and affordable energy is one of the great challenges uniting europeans. despite the ambition, european energy policy is making slow progress. this issue was given a slightly greater importance in the treaty of lisbon. although the commission has set ambitious energy policy objectives on competitiveness, security of supply, sustainability and emission reduction, we are still faced today with a lack of integration of the internal energy market, significant energy isolation of certain geographical areas, and a lack of energy supply in the union. the whole situation requires a certain approach at eu level. accelerated, more determined and coherent action is needed, and it is essential to strengthen europe's role in coordinating and integrating national action.
in writing. − once again, this report has focused too much on green energy, which is a departure from the main theme. it is not explicitly mentioned which southern power link is involved. i'm just reminding you that there's no diversification of energy supply without building nabucco, which the author-rapporteur seems to forget. i voted against because i don't agree with further reductions in co2 emissions and green policies instead of rational policies.
in writing. − the possibility of petitioning, launching a citizens' initiative or complaining to the european ombudsman (erpo) is an invaluable and often the only and final tool that enables an individual to fight against an illegal and harmful decision by the authorities of his or her country. i believe that any recommendations made by the committee on petitions or the erpo should be taken very seriously and deserve the careful intervention of the european commission. given that over 12.2% of petitions in 2011 concerned environmental risks, in particular the failure of national authorities to apply the principles of the so-called environmental directive, both the committee on petitions and the erpo should make every effort to ensure that each complaint is properly analysed and resolved. i agree with the erpo that in the case of the austrian authorities' examination of the complaint concerning the expansion of the airport, the commission failed to fulfil its obligations and did not take all the necessary steps in the examination of the case. i support the ombudsman's view that open and transparent mediation procedures should be conducted more frequently before projects with potentially significant environmental impacts on the region and the health of its inhabitants are undertaken. the maintenance of transparent records of documentation and their updating should be part of good administration in any case. the commission should also put in place good practice of appropriate communication through transparent and factual correspondence with the complainant, which is currently lacking. citizens' complaints are the most valuable information on the implementation and application of eu law by member states, and i therefore call on the commission to treat them with the utmost seriousness, to take the erpo recommendations into account and to analyse and resolve each case diligently.
in writing. − complaint 2591/2010/gg against the european commission (concerning the expansion of vienna airport) by the citizens pointed out administrative problems in the activities of the union’s institutions. the weaknesses of the current environmental impact assessment directives had been highlighted in this issue, therefore the commission proposed to correct this. in my opinion in this case neither the commission nor the austrian authorities were violating any existing european legislation when carrying the eia ex post. it is important that we draw lessons for similar cases and procedures that are yet to come. firstly the eia revision should require more objectivity and impartiality from the authorities in order to avoid possible conflict of interest. secondly it is necessary to make administrative procedures clearer so that this can be done with better understanding and transparency. therefore i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − since 1999, work has been carried out at vienna airport to improve and extend its infrastructure. as a result of the inspection, the commission concluded that the environmental impact assessment provided for in the eia directive should be carried out. since the subsequent negotiations had not had the desired effect, the dsb reopened the investigation into the case, concluding that the commission should have examined the issues raised by the dsb in its decision on the first complaint and asking why the commission had not done so, while closing the investigation. that's why i decided to support them.
in writing. − the european parliament occasionally deals with special reports by the european ombudsman. in the last 17 years, he's only done it 18 times. this time the ombudsman intervened on the breach of the law in the construction of the vienna airport, but the case is much broader in scope, as it de facto concerns the treatment of citizens in the european union countries. the airport in vienna was extended without a mandatory environmental impact assessment of the investment and the inhabitants of the area around the airport. the investment was terminated despite the absence of this assessment, which caused irreversible damage. it was then found that the union directives did not provide for an effective way of dealing with projects already implemented. the whole issue therefore has a much broader dimension, since it concerns respect for citizens' rights not only in austria but also in the other countries of the european union. in my view, the report of the european ombudsman should not only state these unfortunate facts but should also make proposals for more effective enforcement.
in writing. − the agriculture and forestry sectors are important in terms of greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. the appropriate approach and the maintenance of biodiversity in these sectors will result in an increase in carbon uptake by terrestrial ecosystems. the promotion of responsible forest management, linked to reduced forest use and the afforestation of certain areas unsuitable for agriculture, is an important issue. promoting organic farming, maintaining or increasing the area of permanent grassland and applying the right cultivation practices - proper crop rotation, selection of crops according to soil type and local ecosystems - can help to achieve the objectives of climate change policy. action should be taken to implement appropriate fertilisation policies, soil protection or promotion of perennial crops where this will bring tangible benefits to both the farmer and the environment.
in writing. − land use, land use change and forestry (lulucf) accounting is a key element of climate change policy. this may contribute to, inter alia, mitigation, adaptation, the protection of biodiversity and the sustainable use of natural resources. in this context, accounting for the lulucf sector in the european union should have three overarching objectives: - to facilitate compliance with the independent international commitments of the member states and the european union as parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) and the kyoto protocol; - to ensure policy coherence with existing and contemplated union legislation for future coordination and integration, including, inter alia, the common agricultural policy (cap) and the renewable energy directive; and - to ensure that accounting practices and methods are consistent with the principles of transparency, consistency, comparability, completeness and accuracy adopted not only within the member states but also between them as member states of the european union. the rapporteur therefore proposes to clarify the content of the lulucf action plans to take account of recent trends and emission and removal projections, as well as measures to integrate the lulucf sector into other eu policies. in addition, attention should be paid to the language describing the commission's role and responsibilities in ensuring access to information and public participation.
in writing. − the accounting for lulucf in the european union should have three overarching objectives: to facilitate compliance with the independent international commitments of the member states and the european union; to ensure policy coherence with existing and contemplated union legislation for future coordination and integration, including, inter alia, the common agricultural policy (cap) and the renewable energy directive; and to ensure that accounting practices and methodologies are in line with the adopted principles of transparency, consistency, comparability, completeness and accuracy. however, the interests of nation states, often linked to coal as the main energy source, must always be given priority. i disagree with the continuing proposal for co2 reductions, also contained in this report. europe is now in too difficult an economic situation to withstand this minority green dictatorship.
madam president, i voted against all reports concerning greenhouse gas emissions. the energy climate package is a disaster for europe and especially for a country like poland. it undermines and destroys european industrial competitiveness and effectiveness. it pushes millions of jobs in industry and business offshore, beyond the european frontiers. it is also driving millions of citizens, householders, people and families into fuel poverty. it is really bad and loses business for europe. that was why solidarity poland and the efd group supported launching the so-called european initiative against this package. we have to get at least a million signatures in seven countries of the european union to say ‘stop the energy climate package’, so do not hesitate, do not waste your time: enter the website and say ‘stop the energy climate package’.
in writing. - although the report seems to deal only with technical issues related to the system for monitoring and accounting for greenhouse gas emissions, i cannot agree to a further step towards deepening climate policy in europe. for the european union's unbridled ambition and drive to lead on climate change, countries like poland are already paying a huge price in rising electricity, gas and coal prices. economies are losing competitiveness and businesses are moving to other parts of the world. behind them, not only are europe's co2 emissions leaking out, but also - something we don't always remember in the environmental context - we are losing jobs in industry and its business environment.
in writing. − problems and ambiguities arising in the consumer-business relationship should be resolved effectively and efficiently, while maintaining the reliability and fairness of the judgment. in the 21st century, more and more services are provided online. the settlement of consumer disputes via the internet can therefore greatly facilitate the process of ascertaining the claims of the parties involved in the dispute. i personally see many benefits to both producers and consumers. the use of the internet as a tool for the resolution of consumer disputes can simplify the whole procedure, speed up decision-making or reduce the administrative costs of receiving complaints from injured parties.
in writing. − strengthening consumer confidence in the single market is an important objective. this will give consumers a sense of security and real protection when they buy products or services in the european union. in the age of the internet, which is growing so fast, dispute resolution must also move to a new level of virtual reality. this is where consumers face many of the barriers that this proposal aims to remove. one such issue is the resolution of disputes, which consumers find particularly complicated when they encounter problems when buying products from other member states via the internet. in such a situation, the language barrier or the lack of knowledge of the laws of the country often leads consumers to lack confidence in this type of transaction and to abandon the purchase in this way. i supported the online dispute resolution (odr) regulation because it will enable consumers to resolve a dispute with a trader in their own language by introducing an online dispute resolution (odr) platform that will be equipped with a translation program. the commission will also be able to use the platform to provide a full range of information on the legal basis of the dispute. this proposal is very important for the internal market, as it will improve its functioning in such a dynamic sector as e-commerce, contributing to both economic growth and greater consumer safety.
in writing. − the aim of the online dispute resolution system is to create a european online dispute resolution platform. however, in order to benefit from such solutions, a dedicated website must be set up, which will be a single point of access for consumers and businesses. it is intended to settle out of court disputes of a contractual nature arising from the cross-border online sale of goods or the provision of services by a trader established in one member state to a consumer resident in another member state. the use of this platform is to be free of charge. this will undoubtedly simplify and reduce the time taken to resolve disputes.
in writing. − the judicial procedures for resolving consumer disputes are complex and time-consuming. they deter consumers by cost or sometimes they are not known to consumers at all. statistics show that in the last few months alone, 30% of consumers have made a purchase online. many may want to return, exchange, or otherwise advertise the item, but they do not do so for fear of getting involved in a legal dispute. extrajudicial methods can be effective in the european union provided they are available throughout the territory, are applicable to all types of disputes and are adapted to online sales. i supported this report because by using adr instead of going to court, businesses (including smes) will save not only time but also money and thus offer lower prices to consumers. consumers will also benefit from a more friendly, impartial and faster form of dispute resolution, as adrs are required to resolve a dispute within 90 days. it is of particular importance that these out-of-court dispute resolution methods are available in all member states for virtually all purchases, including online purchases. i am convinced that with the report adopted today, the internal market has made a huge step forward in removing barriers and ensuring consumer safety and protection.
in writing. − the commission proposal for a directive on alternative dispute resolution (adr) for consumer disputes aims to provide a simple, useful and inexpensive way of resolving disputes concerning the sale of goods and the provision of services in the european union. once implemented, this directive will enable all consumers residing in the eu to have access to a high-quality adr entity. despite the improvements in consumer protection since the launch of the single market, gaps still exist which make life difficult for citizens, and consumers in particular. both the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union contain provisions requiring the eu to ensure a high level of consumer protection. furthermore, the tfeu provides that the internal market is to comprise an area without internal frontiers in which the free movement of goods and services is ensured. the directive's main objective is to address the three most important and persistent barriers to access to alternative dispute resolution by consumers and businesses. first, the scope of adr remains heterogeneous both in sectoral and geographical terms. secondly, many consumers and traders are simply not aware of the benefits of using alternative dispute resolution mechanisms or are not sufficiently informed about them. i hope that the measures taken will lead to a solution of these problems in the future.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to provide a simple, useful and inexpensive way of resolving disputes concerning the sale of goods and the provision of services in the european union. once implemented, this directive will enable all consumers residing in the eu to have access to a high-quality adr entity. despite the improvements in consumer protection since the launch of the single market, gaps still exist which make life difficult for citizens, and consumers in particular. efforts should be made to eliminate them as soon as possible. the directive's main objective is to address the three most important and persistent barriers to access to alternative dispute resolution by consumers and businesses. first, the scope of the adr remains uneven. second, many consumers and businesses are simply not aware of the benefits of using alternative dispute resolution mechanisms. thirdly, they do not have sufficient information on this subject. i hope that the measures taken will lead to a solution of these problems in the future.
in writing. − it is currently estimated that 60% of businesses and up to 90% of consumers in the european union do not make the right choice when selling or buying cross-border. for both, the main reason for the lack of confidence in this type of transaction is the complexity of the procedures and the higher potential costs of handling complaints and resolving disputes. alternative dispute resolution methods are fast, cheap, do not require the use of a specialist lawyer and offer much more flexibility than court proceedings. these extrajudicial mechanisms are already known throughout the eu, but have been developed in a very heterogeneous way. in some countries, they may be the result of public initiatives, both at central and local level, while in others they must be privately initiated. it is precisely because of this diversity that the status of decisions adopted by the competent authorities may also vary. the new law requires member states to make available and monitor the functioning of non-judicial dispute settlement systems in all sectors. in addition, the relevant national authorities will receive consumer complaints from across the eu. i believe that mechanisms that effectively protect citizens, providing cheap and quick redress, are not only essential for the development of e-commerce, but also offer an opportunity to relieve the burden on the judicial system. that is why i fully support today's directive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr tirolien's report because i believe it presents a balanced approach to the financing of the union's cooperation with the acp countries and the octs for the period 2014-2020. i consider it particularly important to focus on issues such as the involvement of public authorities and civil society organisations in the development and implementation of policy papers and indicative programmes, as well as the raising of revenue at national level and the implementation of effective tax collection mechanisms. i am also pleased that the rapporteur has drawn attention to the need for budgetisation after 2020, which would ensure better harmonisation and coordination of european development aid. however, it should be borne in mind that this should not result in a reduction in allocations to other community policies.
in writing. − as promoters of the european union's standards and values, the octs are outstanding institutions and assets of europe. they are by definition called upon to play the role to which it aspires on a global scale. octs located in the indian ocean, the caribbean, the atlantic or the pacific face new challenges such as the globalisation of trade, new environmental problems, risks linked to climatic anomalies, which europe must also face. their sustainable development is therefore a necessity. the octs, with their natural strengths and the opportunities they offer, can become important elements of the european union's strategy and innovative actors contributing to international negotiations.
in writing. - in today's vote i voted in favour of the report by mr rivasi on radioactive substances in water intended for human consumption. apart from the health aspect, which is of course the most important, i would like to support the rapporteur in his attempt to change the legal basis. we know that neither the council nor the european commission support this proposal. nevertheless, these institutions should finally become aware of the changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon. the european parliament has acquired new powers and should be able to exercise them without hindrance. i am referring in particular to the codecision procedure, which obliges the council to take parliament into account throughout the legislative process, particularly in such an important area as the pollution of drinking water.
in writing. −safety of drinking water for european citizens is one of the main areas of concern for human health and environmental protection policy. the quality of drinking water is currently regulated by the provisions of council directive 98/83/ec (directive on the quality of water intended for human consumption), including regulations on contaminants such as toxic chemicals as well as radionuclides. however, the monitoring requirements for tritium and the overall indicative dose were still not implemented, despite the obligation on member states to comply with the requirements of that directive by the end of 2003. in presenting this proposal, the commission wants to introduce the relevant requirements in the new special legislation based on the provisions of the euratom treaty, in place of the requirements contained in the said directive. unfortunately, i think that all these measures are still not enough.
in writing. − the regulation on common rules for monitoring and evaluating preliminary draft budgetary plans and ensuring the correction of excessive deficits in euro area member states, together with the regulation on the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance of euro area member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability, commonly referred to as the 'two-pack', are the next steps in the process of renewing economic governance in the european union that we have initiated with the so-called 'six-pack'. these acts improve economic and budgetary coordination in the euro area, while maintaining the appropriate balance between the powers of the european commission and the scope of democratic legitimacy and responsibility of national parliaments. the introduction of a common budgetary timetable complements the european semester procedure for the euro area, thereby achieving greater coherence between national budgets and recommendations made at community level. the amendments drawn up by the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which introduce additional elements to the regulation, such as the obligation to establish national fiscal councils to assess budgetary plans, a broader scope of information requirements for the commission on the macroeconomic models used and the preventive financial assistance granted, the right of parliament to call representatives of the troika to meet and the increased automation of the decision-making process by extending the scope of the reverse qualified majority mechanism, should also be welcomed.
in writing. − the two-pack complements the existing eu financial supervisory mechanisms; together with the six-pack, the adopted legal regulations will make it possible to restore financial stability in countries at risk and prevent negative spillovers in the rest of the euro area. this is why the new rules go a step further than the six-pack, by giving the european commission powers to scrutinise draft budgetary laws before they are adopted by national parliaments.
in writing. - budget deficits are a growing problem in many member states. poland introduced the precautionary thresholds in its constitution in 1997, and the eu is introducing them now. the substance of the action should be to avoid excessive deficits in countries that are not yet in such a situation and to help countries with excessive deficits to repair their public finances. the european union has recently developed a legal basis for this, and now it must develop the instruments and methods to implement it in the euro area. for poland, which is a eurozone candidate, this means a chance to recover its finances in the eurozone and to make it easier for it to make a final decision.
in writing. − the two-pack complements the existing eu financial supervisory mechanisms; together with the six-pack, the adopted legal regulations will make it possible to restore financial stability in countries at risk and prevent negative spillovers in the rest of the euro area. this is why the new rules go a step further than the six-pack, by giving the european commission powers to scrutinise draft budgetary laws before they are adopted by national parliaments.
in writing. − venture capital funds still play a small role in the development of business projects. the blame must be placed on both sides, both on the part of potential investors and on the part of companies seeking financing for their projects. entrepreneurs lack not only the preparation to present their idea properly, but also a strategy for the development of their company that would attract investors. venture capital funds are a common form of financing for innovation projects around the world. a potential investor who is interested in a business venture contributes equity to the company, thus taking a certain number of shares. he becomes a co-owner of the company. this form of investment carries a high risk of failure on the one hand and can generate a high rate of return on the other. entrepreneurs who are just trying to get to the market, often with an innovative, unique solution or project, complain about the lack of funding sources and little interest from potential investors. market representatives, i.e. venture capital fund managers, argue that there are not enough projects worth mentioning in poland. few, they feel, have the chance to make the desired profits in the future. i believe that in these difficult times of economic crisis, everything must be done to facilitate the operation of these funds, as this can contribute to the creation of new jobs.
i fully supported this regulation of the parliament and the council on european social entrepreneurship funds. this business is a new and growing investment segment in europe, although the situation varies widely from country to country. it is worth mentioning here that in each country this enterprise today employs between 3 and 8% of the total workforce. the aim of these companies is not only to generate financial profits but also to carry out important social missions. however, entrepreneurship still faces a number of barriers to its development. the proposed solutions will overcome at least part of these difficulties, in particular facilitating the raising of capital. i therefore think that this regulation should be supported.
thank you very much, madam president! the social investment market is growing steadily, and it is also helping individual companies to deal with the social consequences of the financial crisis. such enterprises are geared towards social impact rather than generating profit for their owners. they provide products and services mostly to the poorest people in society. however, the promotion of this type of social business also contributes to the economic upswing in the eu countries. i therefore wholeheartedly support the regulation, hoping for the benefits of an efficient implementation of the european social entrepreneurship funds, especially as its main objective is to complement the rules on investing in this sector of the economy at union level without weakening existing national rules. at the same time, it is worthwhile to promote the funds through an effective and consolidated information policy in order to disseminate them to investors and entrepreneurs.
in writing. − the european social entrepreneurship funds have been set up to provide support to legal entities that focus on implementing social assistance programmes rather than generating profit. such funds provide many innovative solutions and serve as a tool to combat the social consequences of the crisis. however, in view of the economic crisis and the risk of misuse of the funds, it is necessary to clearly define the criteria for the allocation of the funds. i therefore support the draft report tabled by mrs sophie auconie. at the same time, i hope that the changes it proposes will ensure greater transparency of the rules and more effective spending of the european social entrepreneurship funds.
in writing. - mrs auconie, rapporteur for the committee on economic and monetary affairs, drew up a very important draft report on the financing of social projects in a tripartite dialogue with the european commission and the council. the european designation of 'social enterprises' which will be eligible for community funds is also introduced. in the current economic crisis, activities targeting the poorest rather than generating profit are finding it increasingly difficult to raise both public and private funds. i hope that the resolution adopted will lead to the rapid spread of social entrepreneurship in my country too. across europe, the market for so-called 'solidarity investments' already represents 10% of all projects.
in writing. − social entrepreneurship in europe has great potential and can contribute to economic growth and job creation. social enterprises are distinctive because they pursue not only business goals but above all social goals. this approach allows these companies to better understand the needs of consumers, including vulnerable consumers, and to meet those needs more effectively. i believe that we should support these non-profit organisations because they play an important role in society and have the potential to become very important for the development of the european economy. i welcomed the proposal for legislation to make it easier for this type of company to access public procurement, and i am all the more pleased with the discussion on social entrepreneurship also in the context of investment funds. the possibility for different investment funds to use the name 'european social entrepreneurship fund' and to obtain a corresponding passport can be an effective way of strengthening the position of social enterprises and a suitable motivation for investment funds. information campaigns and the development of good practices are particularly important. i supported the report because the creation of a european sector for investments in non-profit-making legal entities whose activities are linked to the implementation of various social programmes will give these enterprises access to the financing they need, which will be beneficial both for society and for the european economy.
in writing. − in the single market act, the commission committed itself to a number of actions to promote the development and growth of social entrepreneurship in europe. the proposal for a regulation on a legal framework for social entrepreneurship funds is one such action and has also been highlighted as a key action in the social entrepreneurship initiative. the social enterprise sector is a very dynamic sector of the eu economy. ensuring continued growth of this sector would make a valuable contribution to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy objectives. unfortunately, legal requirements at eu and national level are not designed to make it easier for these types of companies to raise capital. the proposal for a regulation on social entrepreneurship funds (hereinafter referred to as the regulation) aims to establish uniform rules and requirements for managers of collective investment undertakings wishing to use the name 'european social entrepreneurship fund'. all types of actions supporting social entrepreneurship should therefore be supported.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis, the worst since the 1930s, has led to many negative developments that affect us all. the economic downturn and budgetary shortfalls have been met by budget cuts, cuts in social welfare and health spending, which generally affect women first. the labour market is also showing negative trends. this is reflected in part-time work imposed by the employer, wage cuts and mass redundancies in female-dominated sectors. despite the difficult economic situation, action should focus on increasing women's opportunities in the labour market, family and social friendly policies and wider access to vocational training and placements. i believe that such actions will help to mitigate the negative effects of the economic crisis and to ensure equal opportunities for women and men.
in writing. − since 2008, the economy has been driven by a succession of crises: financial, economic and now social. this last crisis is grossly underestimated by european governments, which first took measures to stimulate the financial system, then adopted budgetary austerity plans, thus ending the spiral of public deficits and thus complying with the maastricht treaty. the consolidation of member states' budgets has considerably overshadowed the social crisis, which is intensifying with the successive stages of the economic crisis and is affecting women in particular. european women are victims of the so-called silent crisis. the effects of the crisis have been felt later and less strongly than in the case of men, but they are undeniable. however, male employment will grow more rapidly, while the austerity measures introduced in the public services sector will have a lasting impact on female employment. even more deeply rooted in the collective consciousness is the idea that male unemployment is a more serious problem than female unemployment. women, who were already affected by unemployment, job insecurity and low wages more than men before the crisis, are now suffering the consequences of the measures taken by governments to reduce public deficits as a way of adapting to the crisis.
in writing. − the use of gender stereotypes and discrimination is evident in the media, the labour market, education and culture. this should be addressed and equality between women and men promoted in both the public and private spheres. the proper education of young people is particularly important. in the present situation, i would consider it advisable to organise information campaigns to promote the image of women in a way that does not violate their dignity. i hope that the efforts made will contribute to the promotion of gender equality policies and the promotion of values such as justice, equality, dignity and respect for every person.
in writing. the report by kartika mp tamara liotard is about eliminating gender stereotypes in the eu. the report touches on a vital issue, but it goes beyond the eu's remit by interfering with school education and even training educators imbued with ideology rather than idea. that's why i voted against it. moreover, in the interests of eu citizens, especially women, meps on the women's rights committee should address important but neglected areas of life with their participation. i mean, certain social and labor rights for women.
in writing. − i strongly feel that gender stereotypes impede a society’s ability to grow and develop a more stable and prosperous future. we, as a society, must stop putting certain genders into particular roles. while it may come as a surprise to learn that men are also put in these stereotypes, it is women who are more frequently subjected to stereotypes and adversely effected by these practices. one such example is the continued, and many would argue detrimental, gender discrimination in the media, communication and advertising. these practices facilitate the reproduction of gender stereotypes, especially by portraying women as sex objects to promote sales. furthermore, in advertising, women account for 27 % of the employees or professionals shown, but 60 % of those portrayed doing housework or looking after children. the report by ms liotard is chalked full of such statistics that lead one to think that if we as a democratic union do not address this issue, where will we be in 20 years from now? will we still be living in the archaic past where people do not succeed because of the gender they were born with or will we move past these stereotypes and develop a society measured on the efforts or merits of the individual, not their gender.
in writing. - the european union reviews each year the progress made towards the objectives set in 1995. the platform for action sets out a programme covering the following 12 areas: poverty, education and training, health, violence, armed conflict, the economy, power and decision-making, institutional mechanisms, human rights, the media, the environment and female children. to narrow the problem, the report focuses on the causes of gender stereotypes in education, media, advertising, the labour market and decision-making. however, more than 15 years after the conference, gender stereotypes and gender inequality are still common problems in the european union today. stereotyped assumptions about women in the labour market lead to labour market segregation and gender pay differentiation. the existence of unfavourable gender stereotypes based on social beliefs and attitudes may have a negative impact on the perception of women in certain spheres of socio-economic life. therefore, the question of the preference of one sex over the other should be formulated in a very balanced way.
in writing. − plant protection products are nothing but substances or mixtures thereof and living organisms intended to protect crops against harmful organisms, to destroy undesirable plants, to regulate growth, development and other biological processes in crops (except fertilisers) and to improve the properties or performance of these substances. in modern times, pesticides are used more and more each year. we also often hear about the various abuses that consumers suffer, especially in health-related matters. this is because the use of these products results in much better yields and also reduces the time it takes for the plants to mature. i believe that the current draft does not fully guarantee the safety of monitoring and application of plant protection products, which will continue to result in abuses in this area. that's why i'm against it.
madam president! ladies and gentlemen! as the s&d co-rapporteur on horizontal regulation, i would like to reiterate and stress that the final document should contain our basic elements, our demands: transparency we are in favour of the names of the beneficiaries being published; environmental protection farmers should comply with the rules of cross compliance; protection of biodiversity change; simplification especially for small farmers, especially up to 10h; support for organic production; introduction of multiannual applications for direct payments this is also a limiting error. as regards the objectives of the reform of the common agricultural policy which we want to achieve, i think we are all in agreement here. we would like european farmers to produce a lot of food, to produce healthy food and to deliver it to the consumer at the right price, at the lowest possible price. that is the purpose of the common agricultural policy. we want farmers to care about the environment. as far as goals go, i think we're in agreement on this. as far as the mechanisms we are introducing are concerned, we can agree that they are no longer needed. farmers will continue to receive various forms of support in the form of direct payments. and not just between member states, but within member states. this is the case, among others, for polish farmers, who receive much less support. unfortunately, support for pillar ii has been reduced, which means that we will not be able to fully achieve these ambitious targets by 2020.
thank you very much, madam president! high isbo! this is the most important debate of this term of the european parliament. there is no issue of greater economic and social importance in the european union than the common agricultural policy, because although only 13 million europeans are farmers, 500 million europeans are food consumers. food security is incredibly important to all of us. i thank all the rapporteurs, and in particular mr capoulas santos, for his reports on direct payments and the rural development fund. i had the honor of working with you as a counter-reporter for the ecr group. this joint work has produced reports which show that the european parliament has a much better understanding of the importance and needs of european agriculture than the commission and the council. i thank the rapporteur and my colleagues on the committee on agriculture for their understanding of the particular difficult situation of the new member states. the ecr group has supported full alignment of direct subsidies across the european union from the outset. we call for support for our amendment in this regard. however, whatever the outcome of the vote on the amendments, what has been prepared so far in the european parliament is for the new and the previously discriminated member states much better than what was decided in the council on the multiannual budget a month ago. for poland, the largest of the new member states, the financial ceilings in mr capoulas santos' report are almost €8 billion higher than those in the budgetary summit, and they are not entirely fair. the discrimination against the new member states is a fact and we should put an end to it as soon as possible, because it is incompatible with the treaty. i shall vote for the reports by mr capoulas santos, which express a reasonable concern for european agriculture. thank you, sir.
i'm not going to let you do this. fellow workers! the new cap must end discrimination against farmers from countries that have joined the union in recent years and are becoming poorer. it is not acceptable that they receive less direct subsidies than their counterparts in rich countries. this is contrary to the ideas of the european union and also contrary to the provisions of the treaties. the differentiation of subsidies is justified when production is supported, whereas when payments are separated from production, this is only and exclusively discrimination against the poor. i also support the continuation of support linked to tobacco production, because the fight against addiction should not start and end with the fight against the growers. and now, the call for support for amendment number 140, which will stop us from supporting gmo crops in the european union.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! direct payments remain the main instrument of the common agricultural policy: they compensate for the low incomes of our farmers, they promote competitiveness on the world market and they are a kind of remuneration for the supply of public goods. unfortunately, the variation in the amount of this support across the european union violates the fundamental principle of a level playing field in the single market. unfortunately, the proposed reform does not change this situation and the mechanism proposed for the equalisation is really symbolic. ladies and gentlemen of the house! so often in this parliament we talk about fairness, we talk about justice. if we want to be fair, if we want to be fair, if we want the subsidies to be fair, then they have to be based on objective criteria, so that the differences in the amount of support are based on these objective criteria and not on the country of origin of the farmer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ladies and gentlemen! the reform proposes new instruments which are sure to be well received by farmers. this concerns more support for young farmers, a special instrument for small farms. i am very pleased with the proposal to define an active farmer, so that support actually goes to farmers and not to those who try to pretend to be farmers. thank you very much. thank you.
it is difficult to make the cap reform a reality when the financial perspective for 2014-2020 reduces the appropriations for this purpose by eur 44 billion. what does that mean, "i'm not"? firstly, it does not provide an opportunity to improve the income situation of european farmers. second, the greening and land-free requirements will make us less competitive in the global marketplace. thirdly, only part of the accession commitments will be fulfilled in relation to the newly admitted countries. a wide variation in support for farmers from new countries will continue to be maintained. the biggest mistake is to limit funding to pillar ii, i.e. rural development. these measures also finance farm development measures. in addition, the burden on this pillar is too high for agri-environment programmes up to 25% of the funds from this pillar are to be allocated to this purpose. what else can we do? what should we do? first, further simplify the administration and control of the cap. secondly, certain solutions already proposed under pillar i for small farms should be supplemented by a special support programme for these farms under pillar ii, the rural development pillar. thirdly, support production in less-favoured areas to maintain production there. fourthly, we must rationally reward the livestock on the farms. it affects the quality of the soil. finally, attention should be paid to the relationship between the cap and the wto negotiations. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in wine and the common organisation of the market in wine (com (90) 0406 - c4-0414/90)
the 2014 budget of the european union will be prepared on an exceptional basis. the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020 are still ongoing. the february agreement between the eu's heads of state and government is a political compromise that must be approved by the european parliament and then by the council. but despite this complex situation, we must do everything in our power to ensure that next year we have adequate funding for measures to support the economy and reduce unemployment, especially among young people. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal to set as priorities for 2014: promoting growth, employment and competitiveness, boosting employment and combating youth unemployment. i am personally pleased that the actions relating to funding for youth, education and mobility, which i made the budgetary priorities of the european parliament for 2011 already, are being continued and have become the priorities of the next rapporteur-general of the european parliament on the budget of the european union anne jensen. the eu budget although it represents only 1% of the gross national income of the european union as a whole is a very important tool that drives investment in the member states and supports european solidarity. in these times of crisis, without the contribution of the european union budget, public investment in many regions and in many member states would be minimal or would not exist at all without the union budget. i hope that the european commission will follow these arguments when preparing the draft 2014 union budget. i also call on the council (i regret that the council is not here) to guarantee an adequate level of payments to enable the union to meet its obligations: obligations towards its citizens and towards its foreign partners. thank you for your attention.
the 2014 budget will be doubly difficult. first, at least part of the ever-increasing payments will have to be made in this budget. secondly, it will be the starting year for the financial perspective up to 2020. it doesn't matter what the start is. the commissioner, who was an active sportsman, knows very well that the principle is that a bad start is a sign of further trouble. i would therefore like to ask whether we can give a precise estimate of the scale of these payments today. and you get a lot of different numbers here. they range from 16 to 30 billion euros. i'd be obliged if you could tell me what you think the scale is.
rapporteur. − mr president, that was not easy as a report – i mean, boy! especially for some of the members from the smaller and medium-sized member states, who are personally influenced by the proposals that we put on the table. i mean, this is one of those rare occasions when the european parliament has the right of initiative, and i think that the most important thing is that we cannot shy away from that responsibility. we decided with roberto to choose a pragmatic solution. what were the other options? asking for more seats? i think that would be the worst possible signal in today’s crisis and, seriously, could we think of ourselves asking for more seats? that would be the only posture coming from the european parliament. i do not think that that is the way forward. the other option was to ask for a radical overhaul of the system. it is true that if we wanted to have a smooth progression from the smallest to the biggest state when it comes to the number of citizens represented by a single member of this house, with the bigger the member state the more citizens a given member of this house represents, we would have to have a more radical solution, where some member states would gain seats and some would lose more than one. but could we realistically see a radical solution accepted either by this house or by the council? we decided that for the moment no state should lose more than one seat and that no state should gain seats. such a profound change can only be made when other institutional questions are up for review, because our institutional set-up is based on the balance between what happens in the european parliament and what happens in the council. my view is that we can only have a radical solution in conjunction with other institutional reforms; most importantly, with the weighting of votes in the council, which is not now up for discussion. we will however – and i can promise you that – come back to that issue in the near future, when maybe we can have a system which is a little bit more far-reaching. our system in this house, when it comes to seats, is that of digressive proportionality. we always, however, have a dilemma: how digressive and how proportional should the system be? we looked at the historical development when it was the biggest states which were progressively losing seats. the system is skewed to their disadvantage. that is why we decided to remedy that. our point of reference consisted of the severin/lamassoure report, primarily, not because it was the best, but because it was voted by this house in the previous legislature. no wonder that we used it as a point of reference. that is why we care very much about the relationship between representativeness on the one hand and demography on the other. that is why we proposed what we proposed. in our system the medium and smaller states are still over-represented, as the purely proportional system taking into account what we have in the council, constitutionally, would not make much sense. although i understand why some of you have submitted amendments, we as rapporteurs cannot support amendments which question either the rationale or the main principles of our thinking and of our report. in that respect, i feel bound by the vote that we had in the committee on constitutional affairs. for us to be effective, for our proposal to carry the day in the council, we need a strong majority in this house backing our report and, therefore, even though i know that for some of you it will not be easy, i ask you to support our compromise. not because this is the best compromise in the ideal world, but i think that there is simply no other solution visible on the short-term horizon. thank you very much for your support and i hope that we can tackle the issue at least for the moment.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. − mr president, for years there has been no progress in the system of national and regional accounts with regard to the regional level, while the budgetary responsibility of regional governments has increased substantially. more than one third of total public expenditure in the union is now managed by levels of government other than the central level, exceeding 50 % by far in some member states. indeed, collecting regional government statistics is key to understanding public spending choices and the reasons for regional disparities, for establishing coherence and complementarity between interventions and different governance levels, for informing future investment decisions and improving the efficiency of scarce public resources, as well as for assessing the impact of policy intervention, which is particularly important in the case of cohesion policy. the reporting of data following the cofog classification of expenditure should be compulsory in order to allow the commission and stakeholders in general to analyse and understand the patterns of regional public expenditure in its functional breakdown, as well as in its ultimate efficiency and impact.
we shall be voting on this report tomorrow, and it is really high time. the current methods were regulated over 17 years ago, and the world - and even more so the european economies - no longer looks the same today as it did then. let's describe our economic development using current methods that correspond to today's reality. statistics are essential for the informed and responsible formulation of european policies. this system must therefore be precise and timely. this will increase the reality and transparency of the entities we're describing, which in this case is the public sector. the citizen, the citizen, will be the main beneficiary of these new regulations, because he will be able to receive reliable and up-to-date information about the economy of the chosen region. this will also benefit the entire administration of the member states, which often bases its work and decisions on statistical data. we need to encourage further development of methodological research, as this will help us to better understand the economic situation in our region. we're in a crisis, people are talking about it all the time. this crisis has just shown how important it is to understand the present situation in the context of the recent past. consistent, consistent and reliable data gives us the ability to better visualize economic phenomena. these statistics are not only used to describe what has happened, but also to inform public decisions about the future, and without them, policy has no relevance to the reality it wants to influence. we therefore support this important and timely report.
draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - thank you, mr president! one of the main obstacles to the implementation of integration policies for migrant women is the male-dominated perception of migrants, although women represent more than 50% of this group. this entails the dependence of migrant women on their husbands, their legal status and the exploitation and discrimination of women. it is necessary to increase the visibility of migrant women's rights in the framework of the union's migration, integration, employment and social policies and to ensure that migrant women are protected from any discrimination. national policies to support migrant women should be developed to enable them to enter the labour market more effectively. it is necessary to facilitate access to information on legal formalities, the recognition of diplomas and qualifications obtained in third countries, the provision of training for migrant women and the provision of access to vocational training and lifelong learning for migrant women. migrant women are a very diverse group. these differences should be reflected in the migration strategies of the country of residence. thank you, sir.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i have a question for your colleague: in acknowledging the important role of migration in solving certain social problems associated with the ageing of certain european societies, certain countries of the european union, because in some this process is more visible, in others less, do you not think that, in addition to this injection of a new group of migrants, we should also look for solutions to the problems in a wise pro-family policy that will make the ageing process not so rapid and that not only migration can stop this process?
thank you very much, mr. chairman! today's debate is a very important element in drawing public attention to the danger of social exclusion of disabled people, which unfortunately is the result of austerity policies introduced in both the union budget and national budgets. in its resolution on the mobility and integration of disabled people, the european parliament strongly supported the removal of restrictions on disabled people's access to employment, their mobility and their use of new technologies. there is therefore no doubt that all the institutions of the european union should support actions that will result in equal opportunities for disabled people. our priority should be to tackle the various barriers that people with disabilities face every day. i therefore call on the commission to develop and recommend to the member states solutions that will help to implement the european disability strategy and give people with disabilities a real chance to live an active, everyday life. thank you, sir.
the minister! while the next european council will not be about the new budgetary perspective of the union, listening to today's debate, a non-european might have the impression that this is the case. why would you do that? many speakers in this room, including several leaders of political groups, have made the mistake of focusing on the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. well, no, it wasn't. as the main topic of the next council will be the strategy to combat the economic crisis and economic growth in europe, the common eu budget is of crucial - if not crucial - importance in this strategy. in europe today, this is the main, if not the only, money for large-scale investment to stimulate growth. this multiannual eu budget also provides billions to fight the biggest threat to europe's future, the cancer that is afflicting many european societies, namely the high, catastrophic unemployment rate among young people. the eu funds are awaited by the countries of the south, which are fighting the crisis with courage, and by the citizens of the countries covered by the cohesion policy, because these funds help to quickly make up for the political divisions that followed the second world war. but there are also entrepreneurs from rich countries, entrepreneurs from net contributor countries, because they often make these investments in southern and eastern european countries. we should not, therefore, reject this budget as daniel cohn-bendit has called for. we can and should improve it, but we must negotiate without undue delay and conclude these negotiations in the interests of our citizens.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! we have, of course, heard the speeches of president barroso, who has read out a list of good news. we also heard from mr. stephen hughes and guy verhofstadt, who shared with us the real news. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. i welcome what my government has calculated, namely that it will receive almost 10% more from the structural and cohesion funds. but at the same time we know that the overall budgetary envelope will be about 20% lower in the new budget than in the current budget, taking inflation into account. the key question is: how will the deficit of 51 billion euro be covered? will it be covered with wallets, with national envelopes? if so, it is worthwhile to have an answer to the question: what will the de facto envelope be for each of the countries applying for the cohesion fund? i shall vote for substantive negotiations with the council and for substantive negotiations with the commission. i would like us to avoid fiction, not to try to build hope, and also not to try to share resources that are not real. thank you for your attention.
in writing. i believe that promoting youth employment and creating favourable conditions for entrepreneurship should be a priority for action at both member state and european level. the key is a holistic, integrated approach, covering many policies. an approach that is not just a response to an emerging problem, but a long-term investment in human and social capital. the success of the growth and jobs pact is underpinned by labour market reforms, including employment flexibility and reductions in non-wage labour costs. it is necessary to exploit the employment potential of the social economy, including supported employment for groups particularly at risk of exclusion. the rules governing the implementation of the european funds, in particular the european social fund, should fully allow for the use of these instruments to promote employment and entrepreneurship effectively.
in writing. we believe that the european parliament must negotiate (the eu budget) and we support most of the demands of the parliament, which should be taken seriously in these negotiations. we do not agree with the wording that rejects the budget agreement. we like the content, but we don't like the rhetoric.
thank you very much. thank you. egypt is an important trading partner of the union, which supported the arab spring and continues to provide significant assistance to the country. in addition to these and other statements in the draft resolution on the situation in egypt, which was drafted by our group, the ecr group has one very important clause: we demand that greater emphasis be placed on ensuring freedom of conscience, expression and belief for all citizens. we firmly state that it is the duty of the egyptian government to guarantee the religious freedom of christians living in egypt and that it is imperative to stop the wave of christian emigration from egypt. this is not the first time that the european parliament has stood up for christians, who are the most discriminated religious group in the world. according to the open doors report, there has always been tension between the christian minority and the muslim majority in the country. but the persecution of christians has increased significantly in recent times, and we therefore once again ask the commission's vice-president, catherine ashton, to raise this issue in her talks with the egyptian authorities. thank you very much. thank you.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i feel that we are disappointed that this arab spring - not only in egypt but also in other countries - is producing completely different fruits, different results than we expected. and so, on the backs of the noble protesters in downtown cairo, people who are in many ways much less tolerant than the ousted president mubarak came to power in egypt, and that is a bitter paradox. so we were kind of tricked, or we were tricked, and -- i stress -- it's not just about egypt. we must protest with all our might against the discrimination against christians in egypt, which is getting worse. this is something i absolutely, i wanted to stress very strongly, unacceptable. we must protest against this, especially since it is a kind of spiral of hatred and hostility towards christians.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! your highness! a lot of things have been brought up here. i join the voice of, say, mp czarnecki, saying that indeed egypt is boiling again, the situation is not stable and this is the reason for some public disappointment in europe or the united states. i would like to draw attention to two aspects in particular: the first is that it is an internal aspect, an internal security aspect, but it has an impact on the outside. this is the question of sinai and security in the area where the bedouin dominate. and that's where, with impunity, hamas and islamic jihad operatives are now operating, and they're launching rockets into israel. there are intelligence signals from various countries that this is a great threat to egypt's neighbor, to israel. these attacks could escalate along the entire egyptian-israeli border. large arms smuggling, large smuggling of explosives - this is what the egyptian authorities unfortunately seem to be unable to control at the moment. the second thing - small but important - is the question of the functioning of ngos in egypt, foundations from germany or the united states or other european countries. it seems that the high representative should - and i hope she is - draw the attention of the egyptian authorities to the fact that such organisations do not do anything wrong, but only help to develop civil society and democracy.
in writing. since the beginning of the arab spring, we have all been watching the situation in egypt on the way to democracy. but we have recently witnessed disturbing events. despite initial successes two years ago, the situation in egypt is becoming increasingly complex. of course, we are all aware of the fact that the development of democracy and the establishment of the rule of law takes time. learning from the experience of the 'new member states', we are aware that political transformation should be seen as a long-term process. on the other hand, as neighbours and partners promoting democracy and human rights, we have an obligation to support the people of egypt. the current situation in egypt is still far from political stability, as evidenced by numerous riots and clashes with the opposition and finally the imposition of a state of emergency. moreover, the repeated reports of violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including police abuse and violence, and violations of freedom of expression, political thought and religion, are alarming and clearly warrant an international response. i share the high representative's positive response to the eu's invitation to observe the upcoming elections and the egyptians' open approach to talks with international partners on human rights. however, taking advantage of egyptian partnerships and invitations, the eu should support the government in developing laws guaranteeing human rights and civil liberties, including laws ensuring the transparency of ngos.
on behalf of the ecr group. - i'm not going to tell you. mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the subject of today's debate is nuclear threat and human rights, which is two things. it is true that the lack of human rights, the lack of democracy in north korea, makes the north korean regime a threat to world peace, and especially to the security of the region. we should always remember the people of north korea, the north koreans, who are suffering today under perhaps the most oppressive, most totalitarian regime that exists in the world today. we should therefore, together with the americans, together with the south korean government, care for both the security and the prevention of this nuclear threat, and for the welfare of the people of north korea, because they are the ones who suffer most today because of the rule of the communist party in north korea.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! (i thought the machine was broken all the time yet, but the microphone works.) thank you for your vote, mr. chairman! madam vice-president of the commission! fellow workers! two weeks ago i was a member of the european parliament delegation to the 22nd session of the un human rights council in geneva. during this visit, we had the opportunity to speak with navaneth pillay, high commissioner for human rights and former judge of the international court of human rights, who shared with us, the representatives of this house, her concerns and observations on the tragic human rights situation in north korea. last monday, the un special rapporteur presented his findings to the human rights council and proposed the establishment of a special commission of inquiry to investigate human rights abuses in north korea, with a resolution to be adopted later this month. it means that our debate is at the right moment and our resolution can be an important voice, both for the international community and - i hope - for the north korean regime, that there is no acceptance of what is happening in korea: mass executions, starvation of a quarter of a million people who are being sent to special camps just because they express views that are not in line with the official line of the korean authorities. thank you very much. thank you.
the human rights situation in north korea is rated as one of the worst in the world. mass executions including executions of minors slave labour, forced abortions, political repression, religious persecution, human trafficking, torture, rape, murder are the main charges raised by international organisations monitoring the respect of fundamental human freedoms. the sanctions imposed by the un or the eu will not change anything. therefore, a permanent dialogue is necessary alongside sanctions. first of all, we need to work out a common position on north korea, or rather the north korean regime. the situation is very serious, because it is not only about the security of the region, but also about the security of the world. of course, dialogue with the korean regime, including on its nuclear programme, must include condemnation of human rights violations, as well as a clear expectation that these human rights violations will end.
i just want to say thank you so much. i've actually been to north korea twice in the last few years. based on my observations over the last few weeks, i'd like to make two observations: first, very slowly, but there are some early signs of change. notable examples are the initial attempts to create a market and a small trade. i've never seen that before. and secondly, the only thing that can really work is multilateral action and increased diplomatic pressure coupled with deliberate sanctions. the key here is of course the union's cooperation with china, because in practice it is the only country with which korea has to deal. thank you, sir.
fellow workers! over the past two years, the situation in syria has evolved from a small uprising to a nationwide civil war. the cost is a destroyed country, some 70,000 people killed and 4 million refugees - although these figures vary from day to day, as mrs ashton pointed out. president assad, who is now in a corner, has decided to divide society along religious and ethnic lines. syria is another country where jihadists have stolen a democratic revolution. how far is sharia law, the courts in idlib, the expulsion of christians from al-raqqa, or the aleppo university bombing from the noble ideas of democracy and freedom that guided the protesters in march two years ago. with foreign backing, the islamists now constitute the vanguard of the insurgency: the best armed, trained, disciplined and unrestrained. this war gave them financial and military resources and opened up opportunities they never had before. this is our mistake. unfortunately, the recent withdrawal of syrian forces from the golan heights and the handing over of the area to the militants also threatens the fragile stability of the middle east. what do we have left? i believe that the al-nusra front should be declared a terrorist organization, the arms embargo on syria should be extended and all humanitarian supplies should be centralized through brussels or the un.
in writing. the situation in syria is catastrophic and is getting worse by the day. according to the un, the conflict in syria has already claimed more than 60,000 lives. two million people have fled their homes in search of safe haven. nearly a million people have fled the effects of war to neighboring countries: jordan, iraq, lebanon, and turkey. in total, four million people need help, three million more than last year. nearly 80 percent of all refugees are women and children. every day, every month, there are more victims. syria's first priority is medical aid and food and water supplies. as the fighting spreads to different parts of syria, it becomes increasingly difficult to provide aid. and then there's the weather. communication and coordination between key humanitarian partners is needed. a regional contingency plan is also needed to ensure that aid is continuously delivered to the local population in the event that humanitarian organisations are forced to leave damascus.
on behalf of the efd group. thank you very much, mr president! i'm not going to let you do this. dear colleagues! we know how serious the situation in mali is and how it was even more serious. it happened in a matter of months with the passive intervention of the international community and organizations. this was said by a representative of the malian parliament at the last meeting of the acp group. he also said that due to the small economic and political potential, the international community's interest in mali's problems only began after the offensive of radical islamic forces in the northern part of the country. so i ask the question: is our passivity not causing the growth of terrorist forces in countries that are somehow on the fringes of the world economy and politics? in countries like yemen and mali, they can spend months without any hindrance training their soldiers and preparing terrorist acts not only in their own countries but also around the world. so we have to ask ourselves whether the european union should only react when one of its member states feels threatened, or whether we should take preventive action, even far from our borders, in the fight against terrorism, to stamp out the germ of evil. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! it's very good that from the military side the french intervention has proved effective. it is worth emphasizing that military success does not solve political, economic, or social problems. there are 431,000 refugees in the world right now, and over 4 million people need help. mali is a country where 80% of families live off what they pick from small plots; it is a country where 69% of the population live below the poverty line; it is a country that ranks 175th out of 187 in the human development index. it is good that the european commission is aware of these problems and is also taking action on development cooperation. i agree that elections in mali should be held as soon as possible, but not on any terms and not at any price. it is not known who will be running, nor whether the people of the north will be able to vote. many observers say that malians are mired in apathy, with little faith that the new leaders will bring about real and deep change. i am glad that some of the eu member states have actively supported the french action in mali, for example, five polish logistics soldiers are already working in bamako. i believe that by working together, we can help to solve the problems i have been talking about more quickly.
on behalf of the ecr group. thank you very much. to sum up what we are talking about, the names that rebecca harms has mentioned, in many cases, even the names of the district representatives, who, as i understand it, cannot get a mandate, must be added. i get these messages from tarnopol, for example. we can exchange those names. we need to talk to the ukrainian authorities about how to change the electoral system. i feel personally responsible for this as head of the next observation missions. to this should be added the question of the rule of law. but in the end, we have to realize that we are politicians and we have a purpose, and that's a big one. it's about showing that the european union is not in crisis, that the european union can afford to open its hands and its doors to young ukrainians in the east, to say that no matter who is the prime minister or the president today, the future belongs to them. and the great works - i say this to the commissioner who is working hard - yes, the great works, mr commissioner, have great enemies, and you know this very well, as we do, because we come from the same part of europe, that the great works in our part of europe have particularly great enemies. there's gonna be a lot of corners to go by the fall. i wish you, i wish the political forces in ukraine, and the opposition, and the government, to be armed with patience, because only strong and healthy nerves can help us in this work, because there will be many difficult moments. and the aim is clear: europe cannot end at the bug. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the efd group. thank you, mr president! we have spoken today in this house and in this parliament about the tragedy in mali, in syria, we are talking about the tragedy of democracy in ukraine, we will be talking about the tragedy in china. they all have one thing in common: lack of understanding, lack of love, lack of reconciliation between people. so let us rejoice today in this chamber and rejoice in the choice made by the cardinals in rome, in electing cardinal bergoglio as pope francis. without the triumph of these values, which the catholic church stands for, there will never be peace, understanding, the triumph of truth and good in the world. let's keep our fingers crossed for the new pope, and hope he succeeds. thank you very much. thank you.
thank you, mr president! today's debate comes more than two weeks after the ukraine-eu summit. the results of the summit are encouraging, as the ukrainian leaders reaffirmed their readiness to implement judicial reforms, change the electoral system, and make major changes both economically and politically, while ensuring the strengthening of civil liberties and freedom of expression. but we know that our relationship is affected by individual cases. unfortunately, the unresolved issues surrounding the imprisonment of prime minister timoshenko and minister luchenko, which have been known for months, have recently been joined by the issue of the removal of mr. vlasenko's mandate. however, reading the statement of the ukrainian parliament on 22 february, we still want to believe that european integration and the signing of the association agreement are a common goal of the political elites and the ukrainian people. so i say to these elites: if this is the case, remember that the month of may, the month you have committed to making decisions, is only a few weeks away. in no more than six weeks, we will expect not just words, not just more promises, but results. it takes action. we're waiting for that. both mr rouček and rebecca harms have spoken about them, and mr kowal has spoken about them. we all know what's going on, we ask you this, we appeal: do not miss the opportunity for ukraine. we're doing everything we can to make it easier for them to get visas, to make sure they're ready to move on. but it requires a declaration, a decision and action on your part.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. ladies and gentlemen! today, ukraine has been compared to georgia on several occasions. three years ago, ukrainians might have been happy with such a comparison. today, that's not a cause for celebration. fortunately, it's not like today you can compare ukraine to belarus or russia. but we don't know what's gonna happen in three years. and that's an important warning. i think all those who spoke before me can be described as friends of ukraine. but also the ukrainian people, the ukrainian authorities, the ukrainian politicians have to understand, they have to give themselves and us a chance. ukraine and the european union have a great goal. it would be a great sin - both on the part of eu politicians and on the part of ukrainian politicians - if we did not achieve this great goal. so it's worth making those on our eastern side aware of this, so that they actually take advantage of this great opportunity for ukraine. thank you very much. thank you.
thank you, mr president! i'm not going to let you do this. fellow workers! we are building step-by-step relations between ukraine and the european union. of course, this is not without its challenges and problems. i am referring to the postponement of the signing of the association agreement between the union and ukraine, for example, because of the failure to respect the rule of law, including human rights. in 2011, relations between ukraine and the union cooled significantly due to the sentencing of yulia tymoshenko, convicted of abusing her government's gas contracts with russia. as a member of parliament, i have had the opportunity to visit our eastern neighbour on several occasions. in particular, when i spoke to young ukrainian citizens, i saw their pro-european attitude. i hope that this agreement will contribute to the strengthening and improvement of mutual relations and will be a real and big step in our relations and that we will not deviate from the pro-ukrainian direction taken earlier. thank you very much. thank you.
mr president, we are discussing the situation in ukraine once again. unfortunately, as has been the case before, we are discussing the deterioration of the political situation there. serhiy vlasenko is being stripped of his mandate as a member of the ukrainian parliament. we have to stick to our values when we are talking about these issues. we have to be very strict and very tough as regards our european values, above all in relation to the rule of law. but we also have to be very clear. we have to remember that our reference point is the interests of ukraine as a nation and the interests of the european union. i believe we should always refer to the opinion of ukrainian civil society. yesterday there was an important meeting, the sixth maidan reload discussion, which brought together leading ngo experts from kharkiv, kiev, lviv and other cities. their position was that in spite of all the irregularities, despite the problems with the rule of law, ukraine and the eu should sign an association agreement. that is the instrument with which to repair ukraine. that is the instrument with which to reform the country. we have to remember that, and we have to send a clear position from the european parliament to the ukrainian people that we want this association agreement to be signed.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! we are aware that the declarations and assurances from kiev alone are not enough. concrete action is needed and despite positive examples, such as the resolution of the dispute over the vote for a colleague in the ukrainian parliament, we continue to hear about actions that have little to do with democracy, such as the removal of mp wlasenko from office. we are also hearing about the possibility of concluding agreements on the ukrainian gas transmission system or the customs union. these events also show that we as the european union should strike ourselves in the chest. because we are not economically active, we allow ukraine to look east, and thus we risk another energy crisis. what i think can help ukraine's integration with the european union is not only european democratic standards, but also closer economic cooperation with the european union, help in building civil society and visa facilitation. thank you very much. thank you.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! i note with satisfaction and solidarity all these statements which point, firstly, to our great potential if we cooperate with ukraine and, secondly, to our understanding of the difficulties in which ukraine finds itself, but in which these fundamental reforms are nevertheless taking place; especially as an economist i mean economic matters. and finally, it seems important to emphasize that we as the european union understand the conditions of neighboring ukraine: that we are not just the only major global player, but that ukraine as a neighbor has another global player. it is largely up to us to be demanding on reform, but also to show that kindness in cooperation. thank you for your attention.
in writing. the current situation in ukraine allows it to weigh the pros and cons of eventually moving towards the union or russia. it is only a seemingly comfortable state that will not last forever. so ukraine was faced with a very important choice, a historic choice. despite president yanukovych's declaration of the european elections, no decisive steps have been taken. election irregularities and slow implementation of reforms are just some of the slowdowns in the association agreement. the affairs of mrs. tymoshenko and mr. luchenko are obvious. but should we take away the ukrainians' chance? it's a society that wants to grow. do people have to pay for government's mistakes? ukraine's efforts to cooperate with the eu should certainly be supported. but first, let's help them meet the conditions. and that's what we should be focusing on. strengthening democracy, and in particular combating the selective application of the law, should be a priority. but let's not put it off. we should step up our efforts to conclude the agreement later this year. this is realistic, because ukrainians are aware that choosing the russian direction will bring tangible benefits in the near term, but will involve a high economic dependence in the future, which they would prefer to avoid. the eu is a more demanding but also more promising development path.
the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you very much, mr president! i'm not going to let you go. we have used the words 'strategic partnership' in various ways. i would like to ask the honourable member whether he thinks that we can talk about a strategic partnership with such fundamental differences between the values of the european union and china in the field of democracy and human rights.
thank you very much. thank you. china is an extremely important partner, not only for the european union, but globally. given the pragmatic nature of economic activity and trade, the essential works cannot be disregarded or overshadowed by the economic interest of the member states. we note with satisfaction that in its draft resolution on eu-china relations, paragraph 32, the european parliament calls on the chinese authorities to officially recognise underground catholic churches as well as churches of other faiths. we also stress that international human rights law recognises freedom of religion or belief. the european parliament has also joined the call of chinese lawyers for religious freedom to be made a paramount principle in the constitution. we must repeat that even if these demands have been and are met with resistance from the chinese side, their consistent formulation, at least in the medium term, must have a positive effect. thank you very much. thank you.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! i'm not going to let you do this. when i last spoke with a senior chinese communist party official on foreign policy a few months ago, he asked, "why don't you as a party, as the epp, want to work with our party?" he said to himself, "i know you hate the word 'communist' in our name", but he also said, "mr. chairman, look out the window. what do you see? mercedes, ibm, coca cola, where is your communism? our system today is rationalism. that's what the official said. and indeed, when we talk about things like the situation in north korea, china is showing a kind of rationalism, and we applaud that very much. but at the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that china is militarizing itself and trying to take a total power position in asia with all its partners. we cannot forget that as the european union, there are conflicts in the south china sea with vietnam, malaysia, indonesia, brunei, the philippines and taiwan, with japan and other countries. here in the european union we must remember this and we must pay attention to it in our relations with our chinese partners.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! in this debate about the eu-china relationship, we should look at china as a global player, our global partner. and from this point of view, because this is a debate and not a statement, i would like to emphasise my agreement with the view of mr bütikofer, who asked: 'is the european union as a whole really a partner for china? isn't china selectively targeting individual countries? then let's be partners in this! there are two themes in our debate: the first is politics, including human rights and economics. we're paying more attention to politics, human rights. why would you do that? sorry, but since it's easier, you don't have to be a tutor. and economic issues will determine the future of both our europe and our relationship with china. so i would very much emphasize the issues of fair trade, dumping, investment presence. but not all experiences with chinese investment are positive. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. fellow workers! i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur very warmly on the fact that his excellent, balanced report was adopted almost unanimously by the committee on legal affairs. not everyone is aware of the important role that mutual societies play, especially in the insurance industry. their share of the eu market is as high as 25%. this means that 230 million europeans are now using their services. unfortunately, despite the recognition of the legal form of mutual societies in most member states, their effective functioning within the internal market continues to be hampered. the current legal rules differ on such basic issues as the formalities for the formation, operation and winding-up of a company. the range of specific services they may offer is also regulated in very different ways. the main objective of the project is therefore to open up new possibilities for mutual societies by complementing their organisation and activities with a community dimension, a european dimension and helping them to take advantage of the single market. my colleague luigi berlinguer, based on sound analysis, proposes a number of solutions which we believe the european commission will be able to use in its work on a european mutual society statute, which i hope will begin soon after the relevant analysis and consultation is completed. i personally believe that mutual societies, when they operate on a crossborder scale, will first and foremost add value for their members, the citizens of the european union. in this context, i hope that today's report will encourage the commission to reconsider this issue and to present a legislative proposal in the short term. it is of course important to stress that the european council will also need to help and support the proposal and show a willingness to cooperate if it is not to come to a standstill, as it has in the past.
thank you, mr president! i welcome the parliament's initiative to enable mutual insurance companies to operate on a european scale. this requires clear guidelines, which may be established under article 352 or article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, to remove the existing legal and administrative barriers. as a form of organisation recognised in most member states, mutual insurance companies play an important role in the economy of the union as a whole. providing health, social and insurance services to some 160 million european citizens, they have a turnover of €180 billion in contributed capital. in addition, these companies currently employ more than 350 000 people, and this number could increase further with the cross-border expansion opportunities of these 'firms', which would have a positive impact on the employment market. however, respect for their business model is not covered by any secondary legislation which only applies to public and private undertakings. the granting of an appropriate european status to mutual insurance companies is essential for their more effective integration into the single market, contributing to the potential for growth and employment in a europe in crisis. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a useful and necessary report.
i welcome the fact that the european parliament is taking up the fight against corruption in sport. corruption is destroying the very foundations of sport and is destroying the beauty of one of the most beautiful human activities, sport. the cases that have been revealed so far are just the tip of the iceberg. we need to step up our efforts. in poland, we've managed to deal with some corruption in football. her cases were immediate. mr. chairman, as a polish fan, you probably remember how in the 90s, one team was six goals short in the last row to win the polish championship, and won 7-1. of course it was a setup. we have a man in the european parliament who has effectively tackled corruption in football - zbigniew ziobro, leader of solidarity poland, former minister of justice in poland, who introduced new provisions to the criminal code in poland, but above all he broke the rules of solidarity between the receiver and the bribe-giver. i welcome this resolution. it should go in the same direction as it is going towards specialised investigative units to bring corruption to justice across europe, in individual countries, and the ruthless confiscation of property and funds that are created as a result of corruption. corruption in sports must be fought with a hot iron.
the european union imposes a wide range of laws on all its members in various areas of life. the debate today shows that the need for community-wide regulation is also urgent in order to ensure the transparency of the organisation of sporting events. the occasional reports of match fixing indicate that the problem of corruption, particularly in football but also in other sports, is still unresolved, and the criminal proceedings before national courts demonstrate the seriousness and scale of the problem. of course, there is no way to generalize from these isolated - but widely echoed - cases of corruption to conclude that it is corrupt officials, not athletes in fair play, who decide the match. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to give us some concrete solutions that you intend to put in place to combat corruption in sport, and when can we expect those solutions?
i have received five draft resolutions. lodged in accordance with rule 110 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the global value chain in the cotton sector (2012/2841 ((rsp)).
i have received one draft resolution. lodged in accordance with rule 110 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place today at 11.30 a.m. (the sitting was suspended at 11.15 a.m. and resumed at 11.30 a.m.)
ladies and gentlemen! the amendment is essentially linguistic. i would like to replace the word 'defined' with 'considered' because, firstly, the word 'considered' better reflects the original polish text of this amendment and, secondly, we would like to avoid a situation in which we would even have a hint that it is a definition of energy poverty. this amendment is not about defining energy poverty, it's about raising the issue of energy poverty.
in writing. − during the arab spring, women played an important role, actively engaging in supporting democratic change and promoting civil society in their countries. in response to the violence, intolerance and discrimination against women in many north african countries, many arab spring activists are taking action to promote equal treatment and greater participation of women in public life. in this context, it is essential to combat all forms of intolerance and discrimination against women, both in public and in private life. action should focus on promoting their participation in public life and facilitating their access to education, justice, health and social protection. it is also important to provide appropriate support to victims of violence and discrimination. i believe that the efforts being made will lead to greater equality of opportunity between women and men, as well as respect for human rights and the development of democracy. however, i am wary of unconditional promotion of reproductive and sexual rights, which does not help to solve existing women's problems, but leads to the promotion of harmful practices.
in writing. there is no doubt that many women were involved in the events of the arab spring. they have participated in demonstrations, public debates, social media, and continue to be an important part of building democracy in these countries. the report by mrs costa is right on many points and touches on important issues. i am referring to the call on national authorities to guarantee equality between women and men in the constitution and the criminal code and to combat violence against women, or to stress that their active participation in public and political life is evidence of their willingness to fully enjoy their civil rights. however, i cannot agree with paragraph 20 of the report, which refers to the development of a new health care strategy, particularly in relation to sexual and reproductive health and rights, which i believe is to lead to the widespread use of abortion. that is why i abstained on this report.
in writing. − since the end of 2010, a wave of protests and demonstrations has swept across north africa and the middle east, changing the region's internal structure and character. regardless of their position in the region, women participated in these events as demonstrators, organizers and leaders, playing key roles alongside their male counterparts. today, they continue to fight for representation in the newly formed assemblies and governments, and for equal rights in the new constitutions. the results of these revolutionary movements, known as the arab spring, vary from country to country for many reasons. this report focuses on four north african countries egypt, libya, morocco and tunisia and i think that narrows the subject down too much. women in tunisia, and to some extent also in egypt, morocco and libya, have gained quite advanced legislation to protect their rights. however, in practice, the achievement of effective equality is still limited, often due to, for example, the lack of effective law enforcement and traditional perceptions of the role of women.
in writing. − the partnership agreement between the members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and the european community and its member states, signed in cotonou on 23 june 2000 (the cotonou agreement), provides the basis for cooperation with the acp states. part iv of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the overseas association decision of 27 november 2001 concerning the association between the eu (formerly the ec) and a number of overseas countries and territories (octs) constitute the legal basis for the association with the octs. the commission communication of 7 december 2011 entitled 'preparation of the multiannual financial framework for the financing of eu cooperation in favour of the african, caribbean and pacific states and the overseas countries and territories for the period 2014-2020 (11th european development fund) ' is the background document for this report. it is therefore necessary to maintain a significant role for budget support, while strengthening the human rights dialogue with the beneficiary countries. at the same time, it is important to bear in mind the importance of article 96 of the cotonou agreement, which allows for the suspension of access to aid in the event of a flagrant breach of the rules of the agreement by the state concerned. this conditional clause should be accompanied by a common eu framework. the eu must continue to support regional integration processes, especially through regional edf programmes. many acp countries are small economies and therefore it is very important for them to have access to infrastructure (energy, roads, warehouses, etc.) that allows the development of genuine regional markets.
in writing. − the mff deal agreed by the council in the last meeting of 7-8 february produced an outdated agreement which priorities fall short of eu’s current and future needs. the deal decreases for the first time eu’s budget for 2014-20 by 3 %, making the levels of payments similar to those in 1988-1989. additionally, the deal overlooks ep’s position on the mff, as also expressed in the resolution adopted on 23 october 2012. acting this way, the council completely disregards ep’s competences set out by the lisbon treaty. the current resolution makes it clear to the council that the ep will reject the mff deal in the present form. yet the resolution also expresses our readiness to enter negotiations with the council with the aim of improving the agreement. our demands are reasonable. we want a modern long-term budget with greater flexibility and transparency. we ask for an agreement that invests in areas which are essential for job creation and promotion of growth, for instance: research, education and cross-border infrastructure. taking into consideration that the ep’s position could produce an agreement that meets the needs of our citizens in these times of financial difficulties, we are keen to begin serious negotiations with the council.
in writing. − together with the ecr group, i voted against the changes proposed by parliament to the new eu financial perspective for 2014-2020. the compromise on the eu budget negotiated in february envisaged a focus on cohesion policy, while parliament is calling for a shift to research, climate and innovation, which will mean a reduction in funding for poland and other eastern european countries. the ep also wants to introduce a financial transaction tax, which my group strongly opposes.
in writing. - due to a voting machine failure, which i had reported to the services, i was unable to support the ecr group's amendment 1 to the resolution on the multiannual financial framework. however, i have entered my vote in favour of this amendment in the minutes of the meeting of 13 march 2013.
in writing. - we believe that the european parliament must negotiate (the eu budget) first and foremost, and we support most of the demands of the parliament, which should be taken seriously. we do not agree with the wording that rejects the budget agreement. so we like the substance of the resolution, but not the rhetoric.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, like many of you, i disagree with the budget negotiated at the council summit. however, i believe that this compromise, which is a rotten compromise in poland's case, is better than the provisional budget. that's why i've supported all the bills that call for the budget to be passed.
in writing. − this regulation lays down the principles to be followed in the compilation and publication of basic macroeconomic data in the eu. in practice, the commission proposal is a broad and more detailed review of the european system of national and regional accounts (esa), based on the latest revision of the united nations system of national accounts (sna) adopted in 2008. statistics are at the heart of the public debate: independent, reliable, comparable and up-to-date data are essential for policy-makers and for economic operators and citizens to measure, assess and monitor the economic situation and its changes. every effort should be made to ensure that the esa review provides eu citizens with the highest quality macroeconomic statistics based on a sound methodology and in accordance with a precise timetable.
in writing. − in practice, the commission proposal is a broad and more detailed review of the european system of national and regional accounts (esa), based on the latest revision of the united nations system of national accounts (sna) adopted in 2008. statistics are at the heart of the public debate: independent, reliable, comparable and up-to-date data are essential for policy-makers and for economic operators and citizens to measure, assess and monitor the economic situation and its changes. every effort should be made to ensure that the esa review provides eu citizens with the highest quality macroeconomic statistics based on a sound methodology and in accordance with a precise timetable.
in writing. − the flag state control aspects of the 2006 maritime labour convention need to be transposed into eu law in a more detailed and concrete way. the main benefit of incorporating the convention into eu law is that it will allow for more effective enforcement of the provisions of the convention in the eu, for example through eu infringement procedures, which will also have a positive impact on compliance. the eu flag state rules should reflect much more the specific and unambiguous requirements of the convention in order to avoid divergent interpretations in the member states which could lead to unfair competition and social dumping. the proposal for a directive is part of a wider set of european legal measures introduced to apply certain standards of the maritime labour convention (mlc) adopted by the international labour organisation (ilo) on 23 february 2006 in geneva. at this stage, the mlc has been ratified by 30 countries representing more than 59% of the world fleet tonnage, and the condition for entry into force of the convention, i.e. the requirement of ratification by 30 countries representing 33% of the world gross tonnage, is therefore fulfilled.
in writing. − while not all of the solutions in the anna jensen report are worthy of support, the budgetary priorities set for 2014 fully reflect my convictions: promoting growth, employment and competitiveness and focusing on tackling unemployment, especially among young people. in many countries, the labour market situation for young people is dramatic and without support from the eu budget, public funding for activation programmes would be minimal in the current economic climate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the anne jensen report on the 2014 budgetary guidelines, as it rightly points out that the budget must provide for adequate payment appropriations and that unjustified cuts must be avoided. the union budget is an investment budget which, when properly composed, can be an effective tool for overcoming the crisis. these requirements must be reflected in the 2014 budget. the union budget must support economic growth and competitiveness and increase employment, especially among young people. the council has already made concrete commitments in this regard, inter alia, in the form of the growth and jobs pact and the youth guarantee. these commitments cannot be met without adequate means. nor can the credibility of the union be undermined by a continuous increase in outstanding liabilities, which have already reached eur 217 billion and are still rising.
in writing. - the european parliament is an institution close to the citizens. europeans directly elect their representatives to the european parliament, they can petition the parliament, they can indirectly initiate the legislative process through a european citizens' initiative, and they can participate in the many public consultations conducted by individual members and the european commission. yet the voter turnout is quite low. in 2009, only 43% of the population went to the polls, and we should change that. citizens should be able to take an active part in the work of the union, and this is possible through elections in which europeans directly elect their representatives. the key issue here, however, is the allocation of mandates between the individual member states. i supported today's resolution because the distribution of seats has a direct impact on the representation of the citizens of the member states in the european parliament. the principle that a member from a larger member state should represent a greater number of citizens than a member from a smaller member state and vice versa, and the fact that the larger the population of a member state, the more seats it is entitled to, are important provisions to ensure adequate representation of all europeans.
in writing. − the report on the composition of the european parliament after the 2014 elections, adopted today, is far from ideal, but it is the only compromise solution currently possible. it guarantees that no country will lose or gain more than one seat, with the exception of germany, which has to lose three under the lisbon treaty. a radical redistribution of ep seats could only be carried out while taking into account other institutional issues, such as the voting system in the council. however, a moderate reform of the composition of the ep after the 2014 elections is inevitable due to the need to find seats for croatian meps and the implementation of the treaty provisions. the provisional, pragmatic solution voted on today, however, provides a good starting point for establishing a new, durable and transparent system for the distribution of seats in the ep before the start of the 2019-2024 parliamentary term. that new system should allow for the automatic redistribution of seats between member states on the basis of an objective criterion, the principle of degressive proportionality and any demographic changes in the member states.
in writing. − the proposal for a number of smaller eu member states, including latvia, to reduce their number of meps cannot be supported. i believe that every eu member state should be represented in all the european parliament's committees in order to ensure that the interests of all eu citizens are fully represented in the most important european policy areas. even at this european parliament's session, smaller member states are not represented in all committees, while large eu member states germany, france, italy, etc. are represented by several meps in each committee. latvia, which has already lost 10% of its population in recent years, will have even less influence in european decision-making processes. i therefore do not support this report which proposes to reduce the number of latvian meps from nine to eight.
in writing. − the rapporteur members have done a great deal of work to balance the member states' demands with the necessary legal changes. i personally think the changes should be even deeper. we should be voting today on a further reduction in the number of meps and a more profound change in the proportions between member states. it must not be forgotten that the new member states are the ones who lose the most from the changes being introduced. the report also lacks any changes to the vote counting systems. i supported the amendment to deepen proportionality in elections so as to increase the presence of small parties in the new parliamentary term. i hope the council will accept the changes i have proposed.
in writing. - vodka is one of poland's most important export products. poland is the largest producer of vodka in the european union: it produces about 290 million litres, of which more than 50 million litres are exported. recently, the polish sejm took steps to safeguard the interests of polish vodka producers. on 13 january 2013, an amendment to the law on the production of spirit drinks, which was adopted in may last year, entered into force. by definition, polish vodka is an alcoholic beverage produced in poland, obtained exclusively from rye, wheat, oats, barley or potatoes grown in our country. the geographical indication 'polska wódka/polish vodka' will benefit financially both farmers and producers and the state budget. i am convinced that the new geographical indication will contribute to further increasing the export of polish vodka. the european commission implementing regulation amending annexes ii and iii to regulation (ec) no 110/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on the definition, description, presentation, labelling and the protection of geographical indications of spirit drinks safeguards the interests of polish producers of spirit drinks. that is why i support the above regulation. in the light of the above, i have decided to vote against the motion for a resolution on the draft commission implementing regulation amending annexes ii and iii to regulation (ec) no 110/2008 of the european parliament and of the council on the definition, description, presentation, labelling and the protection of geographical indications of spirit drinks.
in writing. - today, one of the most important votes of this term of office took place in the european parliament. for countries that joined the union in 2004, such as poland, the discrimination experienced by farmers benefiting from direct payments is a very important issue that remains to be resolved. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment, vocational training and promotion, and working conditions, is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. we therefore welcome the report by mr capoulas santos, in which the appropriations for the polish countryside are much higher than the amounts negotiated at the last summit of heads of state or government.
in writing. - the proposed reform of the common agricultural policy contains more elements of continuation than of change. there was no concept for proposing objective criteria for the allocation of funds. the solutions proposed in the current reform, while closing some of the gaps, do not eliminate them. the biggest beneficiaries are those who have had the least - the baltic states. the countries with the highest subsidies lose a little bit, but it's a small amount because the countries that benefit are small. the 'middle countries', which include poland, receive little more. to this must be added a reduction of eur 44 billion in the common agricultural policy (cap) from the current financial perspective for the period 2014-2020. the changes proposed by the committee on agriculture and rural development in the european parliament's plenary session have had the effect of 'de-normalising' and making the cap more farmer-friendly than what the european commission proposed. when we started the discussions on cap reform, we said we needed a strong cap backed by the right budget. however, the eu budget has been reduced. as i said, the cap is 44 billion less, so it is difficult to implement a reform that should help to raise the income of farmers who are still at an unsatisfactory level, as is the case with only 7% of farmers under 40.
in writing. − to ensure that the cap is fully effective and unleashes its development potential, direct payments must be equalised. i fully support all amendments that implement this principle. in view of the chaos of the vote and the constant attempts to interrupt it, i believe that there may have been a mistake in the vote on some amendments, including the one mentioned above. of course i'll adjust my vote according to the national interest of the poles.
in writing. − rural development programmes are, in addition to direct payments, a key source of funding for agricultural regions from eu funds. such a region is poland's mazowsze, where nearly 70 percent of the province's land is used for agriculture. the motion for a resolution which i voted for contains a number of important points. for example, it draws attention to the issue of organic farming, which is highly desirable in the face of the threat of gmo crops. it proposes to continue the current allocation of funds between member states and to extend the agricultural advisory service. the rural development programmes cover forestry. the provisions on the criteria for less-favoured areas are relevant. the scheme also aims to pay farmers who have left farming and transferred their holdings to others. agricultural policy must remain a priority for the european commission, and the solutions implemented through support programmes should in particular help to stimulate innovation and strengthen cooperation mechanisms.
in writing. - by voting in favour of the adoption of the regulation as it stands, i agree to the opening of negotiations with the council. the committee on agriculture has taken note of a number of important changes. for example, penalties for greening have been limited to greening payments rather than single farm payments. more flexibility and a risk-based approach to control and inspection are also called for. a provision has been introduced for the publication of the names of the beneficiaries of the common agricultural policy. the proposal by my group on the exchange rate for payments, which was adopted by the members of the committee, also deserves attention. it will be calculated on the basis of the average monthly exchange rate, not the exchange rate on a specific day. this solution is more favourable to polish farmers. the solutions provided for in the regulation should simplify the rules for the financing and management of the union's agricultural policy.
in writing. − the new cap should take account of the following priorities: transparency, environmental protection and simplification. first, there is transparency. the names of all farmers receiving payments should be made public. there is a need for greater openness in public life, especially when it comes to spending public money. second, the protection of the environment. greening should be a necessary condition for farmers to receive payments. at the same time, the greening model must be adapted to local conditions. for example, the agricultural situation in france and poland is so different that it is difficult to apply identical solutions without harming farmers. in addition, farmers should respect the principles of cross compliance, such as soil and water protection, the control of animal and plant diseases, food safety, and the protection of biodiversity. and third, simplify. small farmers should be exempted from the obligation to comply with the cross-compliance rules. this will make life easier for small farms, which are the most likely to produce organic food. the second important requirement is the introduction of multiannual payment applications: this will reduce bureaucratic burdens. the cap thus designed should serve european farmers and food consumers well. i have therefore decided to vote in favour of a negotiating mandate on the shape of the new common agricultural policy.
in writing. - europe needs to re-industrialize today. it needs new jobs and a lasting economic recovery. the key factor determining the economic competitiveness and investment attractiveness of individual countries for industry is first and foremost the price of electricity, which largely determines the cost of production. the dynamics of global economic change and the economic competitiveness of individual countries are thus linked to current and expected electricity costs. so if we want to catch up with asia and america today, we need to focus more on actions to bring down prices. the key is to abandon the blind and ineffective energy and climate policy aimed at further reducing co2 emissions. that is why we cannot agree with many of the points made in the report by mrs tzaveli.
in writing. - action towards a low-carbon economy must be based on real conditions, not on the ambitions of euro-bureaucrats and declarations forced on us by lobby groups. this resolution is a typical example of such negative activity. it is one thing to push for renewable energy, which i support, but it is another to push for clean and safe nuclear energy, which i support. however, it is naive and frivolous to talk about a low- or zero-carbon economy without any economic vision for the eu countries in the perspective of 2050, and without any vision for how to use available and cheap alternative energy sources, and without any vision for the future consumption pattern. i propose that the commission should employ science fiction writers for this purpose, not the european parliament. this ridiculous project has no practical future unless it takes full account of climate justice, i.e. the distribution of the global and eu climate burden based on per capita co2 emissions. because it's not, i voted for it.
in writing. - i voted today to adopt the report by mrs tzaveli on the future energy policy of the european union. the report sets targets for 2050 for greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy, energy efficiency and indicates the benefits that can be achieved by investing in and developing these energy policy areas. we need a clean and sustainable energy system that will lead to equal competitiveness and independence in the energy market in the future. the development of these areas is of great importance in view of the ever-increasing demand for energy. i also welcomed the fact that the report does not ignore the issue of environmental protection. i am glad that the european parliament is taking a specific position on this matter and i believe that we are able to achieve the objectives set out in this report.
in writing. − the 2050 energy action plan is an important document because long-term policy strategies are essential when planning for costly energy investments. the rejection of some of the most radical demands, such as the eu's commitment to green energy and the discrimination against shale gas, should be welcomed. the resolution adopted by parliament today is not without its very serious flaws. this includes underestimating the role of shale gas in building the eu's energy capacity, building an energy strategy on the assumption of a global climate agreement, lacking plans to coordinate energy purchases outside the union and lacking a credible cost analysis for ambitious energy and climate targets. first of all, however, it is unacceptable to call for a change in the rules of the european carbon trading system by suspending emission allowances (backloading) when the price of the allowances falls. in my view, changing the previously agreed legal framework of the scheme to manipulate emissions prices violates the principles of the eu ets as a market instrument, reduces its credibility and distorts sustainable and competitive access to energy.
in writing. − energy security and climate change prevention are of paramount importance. the decisions we make now will affect not only our future but also the future of future generations. therefore, all these matters must be carefully considered. energy efficiency and reducing pollution in europe are important. but what is the real effect of the union spending vast sums of money on this purpose when the rest of the world does not follow the basic principles? is there a real chance of influencing the biggest emitters of greenhouse gases like china, india, brazil or the united states to reduce emissions and how to do that? the decarbonisation process should be gradual. companies must be given sufficient time to adapt to the proposed changes. the effects of this could be negative for the economy. some companies will slow down or raise prices, and some will move capital outside the eu, where they will not have to pay fines. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of the decisions we will take in this area. all the tools to prevent global warming and its negative consequences should be developed for the benefit of future generations. therefore, every effort should be made to develop an action plan in this regard.
in writing. − unfortunately, the report was not acceptable because of the clause calling for reform of the european co2 emissions trading system.
in writing. − in december 2011, the european commission (ec) adopted the energy action plan 2050, a long-term strategy that takes into account the opportunities and challenges associated with achieving the european union's (eu) 2050 emissions reduction target while ensuring the security of energy supply and europe's competitiveness. the energy sector generates about 80% of total emissions in the eu. the 2050 target is therefore a test for existing energy systems. in particular, paragraph 91 which talks about tightening climate policy goes far beyond the previously included compromise on so-called back-loading (this is about faster extinguishing of allowances during ets stage iii). i believe that these regulations will be detrimental to our industry, which in turn could lead to a reduction in jobs in the energy and mining sectors and an increase in the already high unemployment rate. that's why i'm voting against it.
in writing. - the tzaveli report contains many very good solutions: it calls for diversification of hydrocarbon suppliers, greater energy solidarity and increased energy expenditure in the eu. these are important considerations, given that the eu today produces only 7% of the world's energy, with ever-increasing demand. however, the itre committee has already succeeded in 'squeezing' in unrelated elements to the report: amendments that distort its composition and the main idea of the honourable member. among them is the 91st amendment. it provides for a very damaging non-market solution for the european economy, namely the withdrawal of part of the oco2 emission allowances. they are contrary to the decisions taken so far and are disrupting the european economy. so are the amendments on shale gas and green energy. i was unable to support such negative solutions, which is why i voted against the report.
in writing. − solidarny poland, which i represent in the european parliament, is in favour of basing european energy on coal and gas - natural resources that provide a significant number of jobs and are currently the basis of the eu's energy basket. we are opposed to the development of nuclear energy, but we leave the final decision to the member states. we believe that any 'yes' to the atom must be backed up by a significant amount of regulation to protect the environment and people from the negative impacts of nuclear power plants.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament’s resolution on strengthening the fight against racism and xenophobia. this resolution is vital to improving our union by way of tolerance and understanding of others. we must not forget that ours is a union developed of 27 differing countries with multiple religions, cultures, and ethnicities. these facts should indicate that ‘united in diversity’ is not only a slogan but a realistic aspect of the eu. the noticeable increase in hate crimes is also quite startling, many of which were based on ethnicity. as we all know, the european union was built on the idea of preventing war and moving forward together, which includes our tolerance of other ethnicities. furthermore, the european union is based on the common values of respect for human rights and the rule of law and is underpinned by the promotion of tolerance. thus, i strongly support the recommendation for member states to further their efforts in educating their respective societies/citizens on the importance of tolerance for others. i feel that more can be achieved to better our states and our union if we all work together in harmony, than if we continue down this road of racism and prejudice.
in writing. − the report raises too many doubts to support it in its present form. in this context, it is also worth noting the controversy surrounding the mandate given to the european food safety authority to prepare a report on substances affecting the endocrine system in humans. unfortunately, questions have been raised again about the independence of the group of experts appointed to this task. conflicts of interest have been identified on a number of occasions in the work of the agency.
in writing. − the increase in the number of cases of hormonal disorders and diseases in humans in recent years should be taken very seriously. the endocrine system regulates many of the body's functions, including reproduction, metabolism, growth, water and mineral metabolism, and heart function. there are worrying developments, especially in relation to reproduction, with which endocrine disruptors appear to be strongly associated. the precautionary principle is and should remain the guiding principle of the union's chemicals policy. lack of complete knowledge cannot be an excuse for passivity. the risk of irreversible changes in the environment and the human body is simply too high. there are currently around 27 000 scientific reports on endocrine disruptors and their effects on humans and animals. the incidence and detection of a number of diseases are skyrocketing worldwide. the increasing incidence of potentially reproductive disorders is particularly noteworthy, but there is also an increase in foetal damage, cancer and diabetes, and an increase in neurodevelopmental disorders such as autism and adhd. as you can see, the problem is so important that it cannot be ignored.
in writing. - the european union is at a turning point in its labour market policy, with a shrinking working age population. without more immigration, it will fall by another 14 million people in the next 10 years. this phenomenon not only affects the long-term balance of european pension systems, but also leads to a shortage of skilled workers in the short to medium term. a key way of solving this dual dilemma of a declining working age population and a shortage of skilled workers is skilled immigration. european citizens have already understood this, and eurobarometer surveys show that 70% of them consider immigrants to be essential to the european economy. however, it is equally clear that immigration without a strategy is a source of problems and a threat to the eu's competitiveness. member states should aim at a qualitative rather than a quantitative migration policy. the challenge of attracting highly skilled workers is already clear. it is already clear that the integration of citizens of other eu and third countries with migrant backgrounds is becoming a major social issue of our time.
in writing. − recognising the high harmfulness of asbestos materials, we should make every effort to eliminate asbestos and all its derivatives from our environment as quickly as possible. this is a necessary step, but it is nevertheless a relatively expensive one. in view of the above, poland has set the end date of the asbestos removal programme as 2032. the date indicated will allow for a gradual changeover without the need to incur the very high one-off and sudden costs of replacing asbestos roofing with harmless panels. in my view, setting a time frame for the elimination of all asbestos residues seems to be a good step in the interests of public health.
in writing. − the report of the committee on employment and social affairs touches on an important public health aspect of the removal of all asbestos-containing products from the environment. local communities, for example in rural areas, are not always fully aware of the risks of exposure to hazardous material. asbestos landfills, often located in rural areas and having a negative impact on groundwater, also require adequate protection.
in writing. - the problems caused by the presence of asbestos-containing products in our environment are undeniable. each year, tens of thousands of people are diagnosed with diseases caused by exposure to asbestos fibres. we must do our utmost to reduce, in a skilful and intelligent manner, the risks to human health posed by asbestos in the immediate environment. particular attention should be paid to rural areas, where there is a much higher incidence of asbestos in various forms being used on farms. systemic, regular actions are needed to increase the effectiveness of local asbestos removal programmes. local communities living in rural areas should be aware of the health risks associated with asbestos. further intensive and wide-ranging information campaigns on this issue are essential. asbestos landfills very often located in rural areas are another problem, with negative effects on groundwater and air. asbestos fibres are durable, and the problems associated with its storage will be borne by future generations. we need to improve the system for locating and monitoring illegal asbestos deposits and the process itself for the safe disposal of asbestos-containing materials. i welcome all such initiatives to improve the health of citizens.
in writing. − the main objective is the safe disposal of asbestos-containing products and waste from the european union area. this will be achieved by: increasing the knowledge of the population about asbestos, its safe use and disposal (eliminating the social acceptance of illegal behaviour related to asbestos, unauthorised dismantling and dumping of waste, including into forests, eliminating the creation of 'wild landfills'); creating the right conditions for the implementation of the applicable legislation and good practices related to asbestos products; creating favourable conditions for the disposal of asbestos products throughout the programme period; monitoring the generation and proper management of asbestos waste; organising the collection and disposal of asbestos waste.
in writing. - the tuws' share of the european market, which is close to 30%, has been built up over several decades. at the same time, this growth, though slower, is also safer. this also serves as a reminder of the importance of legislative issues for the development of mutual institutions. we are working with the european commission, including amice, to develop specific rules to take account of the different nature of the octs and, while respecting the principle of proportionality, to allow them to maintain their distinctiveness. reinsurers influence what happens in the economy, inter alia, by acting as a counterweight to the policies of commercial listed companies. it is also particularly important, especially from the point of view of a socially responsible market, that the existing rules take into account the particular importance of sgeis. the ongoing work on this project should have a positive impact on the development and transparency of the sector.
in writing. - the tuws' share of the european market, which is close to 30%, has been built up over several decades. at the same time, this growth, though slower, is also safer. this also serves as a reminder of the importance of legislative issues for the development of mutual institutions. we are working with the european commission, including amice, to develop specific rules to take account of the different nature of the octs and, while respecting the principle of proportionality, to allow them to retain their distinctiveness. reinsurers influence what happens in the economy, inter alia, by acting as a counterweight to the policies of commercial listed companies. it is also particularly important, especially from the point of view of a socially responsible market, that the existing rules take into account the particular importance of sgeis. the ongoing work on this project should have a positive impact on the development and transparency of the sector.
in writing. - the situation in egypt, following the changes brought about by the arab spring, is still very difficult. although free presidential elections were held in 2012, the situation in the country remains very tense. the judiciary is under constant pressure from various political forces, the drafting of a new constitution has deepened the internal divisions in egyptian society, 42 people have been killed in clashes with the police in recent riots, and a state of emergency is in place. persecution of religious minorities, including coptic christians, who make up about 10% of the country's population, continues. the resolution adopted today also addresses this issue, calling for every effort to be made to stem the tide of christian emigration from egypt. it also calls for comprehensive reforms leading to democracy, the rule of law and social justice, which would contribute to stability not only in the country but also in the region.
in writing. - the events in tahrir square in january two years ago marked the beginning of the transformation in egypt that led to the ousting of president hosni mubarak. more than 60 years of dictatorships came to an end. the protests against mubarak have united citizens with different political views and visions of the state. the protesters demanded free elections, an end to corruption and the introduction of freedom of speech. the unity that united the protesters has long since been forgotten, replaced by conflict and political polarization. in december of that year, a new constitution was approved in a referendum with 64% voting yes, but less than a third of those eligible voted. the constitution was firmly based on sharia law. it also gives more power to the president and more power to the islamist-dominated upper house of parliament. the new constitution introduces restrictions on many human rights issues. it diminishes the rights of the christian minority and may lead to greater discrimination against women. the opposition fears that this will open the way for further islamization of the country. in the recent period, egypt's economy has declined. income from tourism and foreign investment declined. the rising unemployment rate shows the need for economic reform. the european union should encourage egypt to democratize and respect human rights. it is also important to develop civil society, which is a prerequisite for democracy. the current situation is far from the ideals that egyptians fought for two years ago when they overthrew the mubarak dictatorship.
in writing. - the developments in egypt seem to indicate that the policy that mrs ashton has adopted has reached a dead end. unfortunately, as some have pointed out, radical islamic circles stole the revolution that toppled mubarak. this is the dark scenario we see almost every day, and the entire opposition in egypt is sounding the alarm, pointing out that president morsi's actions go beyond what we are used to from egypt's previous dictator, mubarak. in this situation, a shock is necessary, changes are necessary and a radical and clear position of the european union is necessary in the face of the disturbing signals that reach us every day from egypt. shocking are the acts of aggression against the copts and the complete breakdown of the judiciary. it's not just democracy that's at stake there, but the very foundations of the rule of law, and we have to defend them.
thank you very much, mr. chairman! the north korean nuclear tests raise legitimate concerns of the international community, constitute a clear violation of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, and pose a direct threat to pyongyang's neighbours, in particular south korea and japan. in supporting the resolutions, i call on the kim regime to cease its aggressive show of force and its threat to escalate the conflict. i also urge the authorities in beijing, who have a vital interest in stabilizing the region, to put pressure on north korea to avert a potential nuclear threat. the issue of the north korean regime's flagrant human rights violations remains unresolved. especially disturbing are the arrests of families of people who have decided to leave the country. the scandalous food policy is marked by discrimination against its own people. i support the security council's actions with regard to north korea. it seems necessary to take humanitarian action. i look forward to the next round of six-party talks and to redoubling our efforts to find a diplomatic and political solution to the nuclear problem.
in writing. − the dprk authorities' nuclear tests, the breaking of the non-aggression pact and diplomatic relations with south korea, and the disregard for international law and un resolutions are evidence of the unpredictability of the north korean regime. the plight of north korea is further exacerbated by human rights violations, humanitarianism and the dramatic food shortages in the country. the pyongyang authorities should resume constructive contacts with the international community as soon as possible, which will have a positive impact on the situation in korea and the stability of the region.
in writing. - tensions on the korean peninsula are rising as north korea criticizes the new south korean president for the first time in a long time. the dprk's only problem is that he's the president in a skirt. south korea realizes that the previous president's government did not make good relations with the regime, so it is now calling for dialogue, but at the same time stresses that it does not accept the atom. the minister of unification spoke about it recently. north korea also said that what is happening now is a madness caused by south korean warmongers. but i believe that what park geun-hye is doing will improve the dprk's relations with the rest of the asian region, especially with its immediate neighbors, and also improve relations with the us.
mr. chairman, please! china is now the world's largest producer of goods. sadly, much of this is produced by using prisoners from labor camps and child labor. this is not a situation that can happen in today's world. so i'm calling on the chinese authorities to normalize the rules of the labor sector. china has also not made significant progress in political freedoms for years. our strategic relationship with this country must be strengthened, but we are committed to continuing to promote respect for complementary human rights and to monitor the situation of citizens. the report notes the warming of beijing's relations with taiwan, including allowing chinese citizens to observe taiwan's presidential and parliamentary elections. i hope this is a step towards unlocking the international isolation of taiwan from china. also in the area of security, beijing's responsible involvement in the stabilization process on the korean peninsula will directly translate into the weakening of the kim regime.
in writing. - thank you, mr belder, for your report. in the context of europe-china relations, the need for us to work towards respect for human rights should be emphasised. china has not made much progress in this area. political freedom is no more, and workers' rights are violated. child labor is still used in many regions. the member states and the eu high representative must be reminded of the fundamental rights of citizens in china.
in writing. − eu-china relations are an important source of wealth, jobs, development and innovation for both sides. the eu recognises and salutes china’s development achievements and its rapid economic growth. however, the eu has always linked economic prosperity to human freedoms and rights and, unfortunately, china’s human rights record falls short on this point, particularly on the issue of tibet. in the absence of liberties, the people of tibet found self-immolation their only way to express their protest against china’s human rights policies in tibet. since 2009, there have been 107 reported cases of self-immolation, in which 90 people have died from the injuries sustained. as a global human rights promoter and a nobel peace prize winner, the eu must address the issue of tibet in its ongoing dialogues with china. being a member of the tibet intergroup in the ep, i also urge our european leaders to insist that china renew the dialogue with the elected tibetan government aimed at reaching a non-violent settlement. moreover, i call on china to prove its leadership as a world power by complying with international standards and obligations with respect to human rights and the freedom of religion or belief of the tibetan people and all other minorities.
in writing. − china is not only an important economic partner of the eu, but also plays a major role in the world's economic development. china has been focusing on the economy, adapting to the demands of the free market, without attaching much importance to the principles of democracy and human rights. they have taken complete control of the flow of information, not only within the country, but also in external relations. first of all, the censorship of the internet should be strongly condemned. this makes it impossible to have an objective view of the internal situation in the country. how can we verify that our partners' assurances are true if there is no independent information? nor is there anything to admire about china's contribution to tibet's economic development. the european union is committed to the protection of the rights of tibetans and to the protection of their cultural heritage. the mass settlement of chinese in tibet is also a long-term means of dominating tibetan culture. on the other hand, we should seek to find common ground in eu-china relations and build on the achievements of the past. the tourist industry is certainly a good thing. already, chinese tourists make up a significant proportion of those visiting europe. so we need to have a balanced policy towards china, with a focus on respect for human rights, democracy in china, and mutually beneficial development.
in writing. − the strategic partnership between the european union and the people's republic of china (prc) has been developing steadily since the mid-1990s. trade and the development of economic relations are of particular importance to both sides. the community welcomes their development and is interested in strengthening bilateral relations with china also in other areas. in the near future, eu-china relations will further deepen as both sides increase their economic and political power in international relations and the community becomes china's main partner in the world. i think, however, that we must be very careful and cautious, bearing in mind the dangers that the uncontrolled development of this cooperation poses to our market.
in writing. - china is a key player in the international arena today. the report put to the vote makes this very clear. it also shows our weakness as a european community in the face of the asian giant. the trade balance is still negative, we are unable to stop the flood of goods, often counterfeit, that come from china to europe every year. it's hurting our industry, it's hurting our relationships. china is also an aggressive player in the energy market. beijing is not concerned with international environmental standards and continues to take no steps to reduce co2 emissions and improve water quality. the report does not address the issue of rare minerals, which are vital to the european economy and whose export to europe is blocked by beijing.
corruption in sports is a pathological phenomenon that deserves the highest condemnation. for nearly a decade, poland has been the subject of an intensive investigation into match-fixing, a practice that at one time reached enormous proportions. thanks to the commitment of the state authorities, we have managed to reduce these shameful acts drastically. today, we learn that criminal methods of competition have also been used in a number of other countries, even in the hugely profitable international games. i therefore support the commission's call for coordinated rules to combat pathology in european football. it is also essential to fully involve football organisations and clubs, which should be particularly sensitive to the effects of unfair practices. a particular problem in recent years has been the massive takeover of european clubs by asian companies that we are not able to fully control. this is a worrying situation, marked by the abandonment of the old football brands of the old continent.
thank you very much. thank you. (second attempt, i hope it's a success.) the match-fixing issue is taking on a whole new formula. sport has become an official european policy, and the powers of the european union open up new opportunities. this is not only cooperation between individual countries, between europol and other organisations fighting match-fixing, but also perhaps an attempt to work towards a common, very high criminal penalty and a definition of crime in sport. poland has such experiences and they have influenced in a very good way, in a preventive way, what is happening in the area of match fixing. that is why i think the european union should normise legal issues first. secondly, we also have a big debate ahead of us about the future of the 'yes, europe' programme, in which we have a big sporting component. we should use these measures to educate the entire sports community to also counteract match fixing within the sports community. thank you, sir.
in writing. - i support actions to combat match-fixing and corruption in sport. strong action is needed to ensure fairness and respect for the principles of fair play in sport. the international nature and scale of these crimes require action at european level, including judicial and investigative cooperation. prevention measures and educational programmes, especially for children and young people, are also needed. i would like to express my hope that the measures taken will be effective in the fight against transparency and fairness in sport.
in writing. - corruption is killing the sport. poland is one of the european countries most affected by the pathologies associated with buying and selling football matches. thanks to the gigantic efforts of the state apparatus, this problem has been overcome. the growth of betting shops, which in the internet age operate across national borders, has created new problems. this is why action at european level is urgently needed. it is essential to look at the links between organised crime and illegal betting, sports agents, judges, sports activists and athletes themselves. the commission should also consider regulating online betting. it is obvious that they have become a permanent part of the world of sport, and it is impossible to eliminate them. this does not mean, however, that this area should be exempt from the regulation and control of the european institutions. the european union should do everything possible to ensure that the fans in every european stadium have no doubt that they are participating in a fair sporting competition. in this context, i have decided to vote in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on match-fixing and corruption in sport (2013/2567 ((rsp)).
in writing. - match fixing is widely regarded as one of the greatest threats facing modern sport. the fixing of the results of sports competitions violates the values promoted by sport, such as honesty, fair play and respect for others. it risks alienating fans from organised sport, a sector that accounts for almost 2% of the eu's gross value added. furthermore, the fixing of sports results is often linked to the operation of global organized crime networks. it's a problem that has become a priority for public authorities, sports and law enforcement agencies around the world. the commission communication on the development of the european dimension in sport of 2011 explicitly recognises match-fixing as a threat that undermines ethical standards and the integrity of sport. the issue of sports betting was also raised in 2011 in the commission's green paper on online gambling, the commission communication 'fighting corruption in the eu' and the commission communication 'towards a comprehensive european framework for online gambling'.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the european parliament is working to combat corruption in sport, in particular match-fixing. corruption is destroying the very foundations of sport and is destroying the beauty of one of the most beautiful human activities, sport. the cases that have been revealed so far are just the tip of the iceberg. we need to step up our efforts. the resolution before the vote encourages this. but it must be remembered that there will be no results unless the world football associations join in the common struggle. this is an environment where the stain of corruption in sports is particularly visible. we should therefore focus on dialogue with fifa and uefa to strengthen cooperation in this area. the unions should, among other things, disclose their financial situation and launch a zero tolerance campaign for corruption in sport.
the author. - thank you, mr president! after the international criminal court sentenced islamic leader delwar hossain saidi to death on february 28, bangladesh was rocked by violent riots. he was found guilty of murder, torture and rape during the 1971 war of independence. according to human rights activists, since the verdict was announced, at least 67 people have been killed and hundreds injured in clashes between sayedi's supporters and police. chaos and violence in the streets cause suffering to the local population and harm the development of the state, therefore we urge all political actors to exercise restraint and refrain from acts of violence. the bangladeshi authorities must take decisive steps to stabilise the situation in the country and bring the people together. bangladesh, one of 21 countries that still have the death penalty as a legal punishment, should take into account the guidelines of the united nations charter and the universal declaration of human rights when prosecuting war crimes suspects. the european union strongly condemns the use of the death penalty, regardless of the seriousness of the crimes committed, and parliament has consistently called for its systematic abolition. i therefore call on the bangladeshi authorities to bring their law and practice into line with international standards in the field of justice.
on behalf of the ppe group. ladies and gentlemen! the pursuit of justice is justified. even if, as in bangladesh, the trials take place decades after the crimes were committed. but it's bad when the verdicts of the judiciary provoke further and more brutal acts of violence. these new victims could have been avoided. i am convinced that reconciliation, but also justice, would be better and more effective if not for the death penalty, which can be and still is a crime in bangladesh. in our resolution we rightly call for the commutation of all death sentences, a moratorium on executions and the eventual abolition of the death penalty. peace in bangladesh is achievable. the conditions are respect for the principles of religious freedom, respect for the rights of ethnic minorities, the rule of law, respect for human rights and non-violence.
on behalf of the ecr group. the already extremely complex situation in bangladesh has deteriorated significantly in recent weeks. this is the result of the legitimate authorities' attempt to hold accountable those responsible for crimes committed during the independence struggle. the demonstrations in the streets of cities show the deep divisions in society around the interpretation of events from four decades ago, when virtually every family experienced violence. sadly, the riots have claimed dozens of lives, and the hindu minority has been particularly affected. islamic militants have destroyed over 40 hindu temples across the country. many shops and homes belonging to the hindu community were burned, leaving hundreds homeless. shockingly, this minority seems to be targeted solely for religious reasons. while recognising the need for reconciliation, justice and accountability for crimes, we should nevertheless call on the bengali authorities to step up their efforts to enforce the rule of law and respect international human rights standards. only then will the criminal court fulfill its role. i expect the institution to be transparent, honest and independent, and the authorities to control the chaos that has engulfed the country.
thank you very much. thank you. speaking of human rights violations in bangladesh, i have before my eyes his young, 14-year-old citizen hena kabir, who became a victim of inhuman law. today, as the circumstances of her tragic death come to light, it can be said that what happened to her was a barbarity that has no right to happen in the civilized world. not only was the child raped by a married man, but she was also accused of adultery and sentenced to a lashing that she did not survive. we may wonder why all this happened in a country considered to be fairly democratic and moderate fundamentalist. there is no single answer, but this tragic event clearly shows that in the provincial and small towns of bangladesh, where there are no functioning courts and education is almost unattainable, people's lives are governed by strict sharia law. when you look at all this, it's clear that this country has a terrible law enforcement problem. the case of hena kabir is not an isolated one. so from this place i would like to appeal to the prime minister of this country to act with common sense, to improve the safety of ordinary citizens and to curb the shameful and inhumane practices of misuse of law, which hena kabir has become a symbol of.
in writing. the debate today shows that the issue of human rights in bangladesh is still an open one. the riots that followed the death sentence handed down by a war crimes court to an islamist opposition party leader found guilty of mass murder and religious persecution of hindus, testify to the continuing political instability in bangladesh. conflicts between supporters of different political factions, based on different assessments of the past war times since 1971, have a negative impact primarily on the defenseless citizens of the country, who are victims of the non-compliance with international standards and mutual intimidation of political opponents. we have responded in this room on many occasions to various violations of basic civil rights. this is also the response that the current situation in bangladesh requires. i therefore call on the commission to use diplomatic means to demand that the bangladeshi authorities take action to stop the violence and stabilise the political situation in the country.
in writing. – since february, bangladesh has been facing a violent period of riots and manifestation which have already caused the death of more than 40 bengalis. the international war crimes tribunal has found the leaders of the main islamist party guilty of crimes against humanity committed during the war of independence in 1971 and consequently sentenced them to death or life imprisonment. meanwhile, other members are also standing trial. the awami league – the current leading party representing the bengali patriots – is supporting the shahbagh movement, which has requested that the jamaat-e-islami leaders be condemned. we are all aware that the conflict opposing the awami league and the bangladesh nationalist party which represent the large islamic community has lasted for many years. therefore, i strongly condemn the violation of human rights that is taking place in dhaka and throughout the country. ahmed rajib haider, a bengali blogger and one of the organisers of the shahbagh movement, was brutally murdered on 15 february by five islamic activists. i believe there is an urgent need for the bengasi government to find a solution to protect its citizens so that they have access to their fundamental rights and to stop the massacres of scores of citizens in the streets.
in writing. victims of the conflicts in the former yugoslavia, apartheid in south africa and the genocide in rwanda have been given a symbolic sense of justice for years. the people of bangladesh have had to wait for this moment for 40 years. during the 1971 conflict, virtually every family was affected by violence by the pakistani military or paramilitary groups. the memory of those events and the punishment of the perpetrators should be a priority for the current government. but we must not forget the standards of international law. the desire for retaliation should not override the principle of a fair and impartial trial. the sentence against abdul kalam azad, handed down in absentia, clearly violates the basic rights of the defendant to a fair trial. it is also unthinkable that pressure is being put on the international criminal court to change the sentence of abdul quader mollaha. the statute of the international criminal court, which is set up to deal with mass violations of humanitarian law, including genocide, contains no provision that would allow the use of the death penalty. the recent sentences have opened old, unhealed wounds. the european union must respond clearly to the events in bangladesh before the act of historic reconciliation becomes a tool of personal and political reckoning.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the situation in iraq over the last few decades is obviously very complicated, involving internal and external conflicts. but i think that the resolution we are presenting touches on all the important current aspects of the internal situation in iraq. unfortunately, we are dealing with human rights violations, torture, terrorist attacks all the time. this resolution, of course, calls for non-discrimination against turkmen, and the rights of all minorities are theoretically guaranteed in the iraqi constitution. it stresses the need for coordination between the iraqi authorities and international organisations to support minorities and the most vulnerable groups. calls on the iraqi government and all political leaders to engage in dialogue. i hope that also on behalf of the european union, the high representative will take all necessary steps to end discrimination against minorities and support the iraqi government in organising free, peaceful, fair regional elections in april, which will be an opportunity for dialogue in iraq.
we cannot remain passive in the face of the growing violence and ethnic chaos in iraq. the ongoing dispute between the central government in baghdad and the kurdistan regional government has recently escalated. this has a negative impact on the security situation in the region and threatens the peaceful coexistence of many ethnic groups: kurds, arabs, turkmen. recent incidents, such as the increasing number of terrorist attacks and the suicide bombing of a turkmen official in january, further destabilize the situation, escalating the wave of violence in the country. it is unacceptable that attacks are primarily directed against civilians and based on religious, ethnic or cultural prejudices. the middle east is a particularly conspicuous system of interconnected vessels. what happens in iraq determines to a large extent the situation in its international environment and vice versa. the developments in the region affect the direction of iraqi policy.
more than 4,500 palestinians are held in israeli prisons, and 300 are in so-called administrative detention, which often lasts for years without formal charges or a fair trial. palestinian prisoners are denied medical care, visits, interpreters, are held in solitary confinement, tortured. the situation of women and children is particularly worrying. israel must abide by international conventions and stop violating human rights. i call for the immediate release of children, political prisoners and administrative detainees, including the members of the palestinian legislative council. these issues need to be raised at all levels of the union's bilateral relations with israel. the israeli authorities should launch an independent and transparent investigation into the circumstances of arafat yaradat's death and into allegations of torture in israeli prisons. nothing justifies israel's violation of human rights and disregard for... (the speaker turns off the microphone.)
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. of course, this decision and this vote that we're facing has a much broader context. this is not just some narrow aspect of the ets. i fully agree with those who are reporting here that this is a much broader and much more serious issue. i'd like to shed some light on the larger context. of the 27 member states of the european union, only 4 have a higher growth than last year. the rest of us are facing the prospect of stagnation or even recession. our economy is in deep crisis, which for some means simply poor statistics, which cannot be boasted of during the election campaign, but for millions of europeans it means the drama of unemployment. that's unemployment above 10% in 15 member states of the european union. in some cases, it's over 25%. one of the key reasons for the loss of competitiveness of the european economy is energy prices, including co2 costs. this is the case in every study on the competitiveness of the european economy. the commission's proposal means that despite the crisis and against the market for co2 allowances, the price of co2 will be increased. there is no energy-intensive industry in europe, whether it be cement, gypsum, paper, chemicals, or fertilisers for agriculture, that would not protest against this policy. that's over 2.5 million jobs, that's the economic potential of 30,000 entrepreneurs. especially in this crisis, we cannot afford to ignore this aspect of the decision. without the recovery and development of european industry, the crisis in europe will not be overcome. that is why it is urgent to reject the european commission's proposal today.
you guys! environmental policy should be implemented at community level and by the member states. the commission's proposals, however, lead to the exploitation of the states on a scale never before seen. backloading is a kind of "i'll do it" throw. it would lead to the monopolistic nature of the commission as a concession-awarding authority. the timing of greenhouse gas emissions auctions is not only a matter of environmental concern, but also of diversifying the energy mix of member states. in this case, the provision of article 192 (2) (c) tfeu applies. the fundamental question therefore arises: what was the legal basis on which the commission adopted the ordinary procedure bypassing the consultative role of the member states? the adoption of backloading, according to the commission's proposal, will deepen the economic crisis and lead to higher energy prices, thus lowering competitiveness and increasing unemployment and widening the sphere of energy poverty. so, in the interests of jobs, this bill should be rejected out of hand. you don't fight a crisis by deepening it.
the commission's proposed package of interim solutions to the emissions trading system fundamentally changes the allocation auction schedule, significantly reducing the quantities to be auctioned. it is forgotten that the system was created as a market mechanism and should therefore operate according to market rules. i would like to express my strong opposition to the commission's interference in the auctioning of allowances, which is a pure manipulation of coal prices. it will only cause a considerable increase in energy costs. the current emission reduction plan is fully implemented and is expected to reach the target value by the end of the decade. in most member states, emissions are declining steadily. withdrawing some of the allowances and manually controlling their prices guarantees a worsening of the problems in mining, which in the economic crisis will significantly deepen the recession. for poland, these solutions could prove disastrous, because they could lead to a drastic reduction in the economic development of my country. i therefore call on the member states to reject the commission's proposals in question. it goes without saying that the eu's emission reductions, if not followed by other highly industrialized countries such as china and the us, will result in a massive outflow of investment from the community.
the question asked by raising the blue card. yannick jadot rightly pointed out that mr mittal has accumulated very large resources in the form of co2 emission certificates. i would like to ask if the green group has estimated how much mr. mittal's resources will increase after the reform is pushed to its knees, which is expected to result in an increase in the prices of these certificates, which are stored in mr. mittal's good safe?
thank you very much, mr. chairman! the commissioner said it was just a one-time withdrawal. but who can guarantee that it's a one-time thing? the current commission will be leaving in a year's time, and a new commission will be in place to take another decision of this kind. i therefore believe that no precedent should be set in making such decisions. of course, you could say that we've created an artificial system, so we can artificially change prices and interfere politically. i think that if we have made a decision, we cannot create any more uncertainty in the market. what we're really creating is a huge amount of uncertainty about what's going to happen next, how we're all going to behave, and that's not good for the economy. the market is now functioning, every year the trade is growing, the prices are falling depending on the economic situation, and it's not really clear why this tool is used. even if you don't like the commissioner's current prices, there's no denying that the system works the way it was designed to. etes was never intended as a fiscal tool, a means to extract money. his main goal was to reduce emissions, and he's doing that.
mr. chairman, please! the rationale for the introduction of the ets as a trading system for emissions in europe was that it was a market mechanism but also that it would have an impact on meeting the 20% emission reduction target by 2020. what's wrong, man? according to all the information, even according to what the commissioner tells us, we'll meet those conditions. so what's the problem, and why are we starting to get into this system? backloading, the 900 million allowances that we want to take out of the market right now, will cause a huge shake-up in the market. is that what we want? my colleagues say that these rights will be reinstated in this market. when did you say that? right before the end? before the end of this reckoning? this is absurd. then i think we're going to have a very big price difference. there's just going to be a frenzy in the market. i don't think we want that. moreover, all the market regulation from the top has never produced any good effects. we have a crisis. the excess allowances are due, inter alia, to market forces. the end of production and the withdrawal of industry to other areas. let's fight unemployment in a systematic way - as my colleagues have said - so that we can keep industry, jobs for young people and not be unpredictable in our actions, because what we do leads to unpredictability.
mr. chairman, please! the draft amendment to the directive is a threat to jobs and the risk of further increases in energy prices. there are more threats, also of a democratic nature. the european commission is asking parliament in a rather bold way to allow unlimited interference with the market mechanism that has already been set up. this undermines the credibility of the european union's legislative system. the commission report also shows that backloading will cause a continuous increase in energy prices and a major threat to the european economy. there is virtually no progress in the global climate agreement we cannot, by ourselves, weaken ourselves. we represent the european economy and the european people, not china and the united states. there is global competition huge risk we have to be aware of that. i've met citizens who see this as sabotage, just a harmful act, a basic threat. we also need to know that these changes will lead to the outflow of jobs from the european union. let's take a cue from the industry committee and vote like our colleagues. it's the only way.
mr. chairman, please! the emissions trading border happens to be on the eastern border of poland. according to today's press, if the price of a ton of co2 rises from the current 7 euros to 10 euros, cement production in poland will become unprofitable and will be transferred to belarus, where there is no need to pay for co2. this is not only the case for polskie zakłady cementowe (which have invested over eur 120 million in environmental protection in recent years), but also for 13 cement factories belonging to 9 international groups, which employ 25 000 people in poland. so the effect will be that we will lose jobs, and the emissions will not decrease, but on the contrary, will increase, because in addition to the emissions from the production, which will take place a few dozen kilometers away, there will be co2 emissions from the transport of cement from belarus to poland.
thank you, mr president! backloading is the first step towards the permanent removal of system allowances and thus towards raising the 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction target. the council and parliament have agreed that the reduction target for the european union can only be increased if a global climate agreement is reached. given that the chances of reaching such an agreement are currently low, it would be unjustified to raise the target for the european union, and moreover, such a decision should not be an arbitrary decision of the european commission. electricity prices in the european union for industrial customers have already increased by 45% in the last decade, making european industry less competitive globally. the implementation of the european commission's proposal will cause a sharp increase in the price of permits and will translate into further increases in energy prices in the context of the ongoing economic downturn. the recovery will be a natural market impulse to increase the price of allowances.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the proposed amendment to the directive gives the european commission virtually an unlimited mandate to change the auction calendar, or de facto market. in accordance with the directive in force, the auction process should be predictable, in particular with regard to the timing and the course of the auction and the estimated volumes of allowances to be made available. proposals for intervention in the ets market by its regulator can in fact be taken as a clear signal of the instability of this market. the proposed amendment to the directive appears to be contrary to article 290 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, according to which the power to adopt a delegated act cannot be delegated to cover the essential elements of a field, since such matters should be regulated by a legislative act. the temporary withdrawal of allowances amends an essential element of the ets directive as it violates the accepted principle of an annual reduction of the market allowance pool by 1,74% and therefore cannot be resolved by means of a delegated act. consequently, by periodically reducing the prices of the allowances marketed, the commission could have increased their price. it therefore appears that the european commission's actions do not lead to emission reductions at the lowest cost, but only affect the price of allowances. i would like to note that the results of the public consultation clearly show that the voice coming from poland is being ignored. that is why i am strongly opposed to this type of regulation.
in writing. the commission's proposal to change the timetable for the european emissions trading system's co2 auction, which aims to increase the price of co2 allowances, is a bad project because it upsets the balance between climate policy and the economic objectives of the member states. it is incomprehensible that in a situation of economic slowdown and the restoration of the competitiveness of european industry, we want to inflate energy prices and weaken the pace of recovery. the ets was designed as a market instrument that naturally adapts to supply and demand. a decline in prices is a normal symptom of an economic slowdown. the system remains fluid, so climate targets can simply be achieved at a lower cost to the economy. administrative interference is a market-distorting tactic. the proposal is a temporary solution which prevents european businesses from planning for the long term. this action will not change the face of the system but will contribute to increasing price volatility in the energy market. the need for reform of emissions trading is justified and the design of the instrument itself needs to be reconsidered. i think green growth is possible, but we have to define balance differently. we cannot allow climate policy to be over-ambitious at the expense of the economy. the eu's co2 emissions are about 11% of the world's. without china, brazil or the us convinced of the merits of the eu's climate change approach, there is no chance of achieving significant emissions reductions.
in writing. european climate policy is designed to adapt the european economy to the reality of climate change. its tool is the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions achieved through initiatives such as the ets. emissions trading has so far been a way of curbing emissions, which has also been greatly helped by the weakening of the european economy as a result of the global crisis. however, it should be noted that the ets must not only be effective but also fair. it cannot impose the same requirements on all eu countries without taking into account the national characteristics of their economies. just as the economies of western europe have long since begun to shift towards renewable energy sources, the economies of the new member states have for decades been dictated by central planning, which has perpetuated their inefficient and unsustainable energy consumption. you can't make a simple comparison here. on the one hand, ambitious emission reduction targets should be set, but the level of ambition should remain commensurate with the level of capacity available to individual countries. we cannot subordinate economic growth and thus energy and consumer goods prices to a climate policy that is overriding, because this could lead to a decline in living standards and a deepening of the very unfavourable energy poverty. we therefore expect the european commission to prepare a proposal for the functioning of the ets that effectively balances these objectives.
in writing. the european commission has decided to take a very dangerous step, which is to interfere with previously established market rules. backloading is not only a futile tool, it's also a dangerous game that tends to discourage investors. many investments have already been put on hold due to the uncertainty created by successive commission decisions. it should be borne in mind that the adoption of the provisions in question will lead to a further increase in electricity prices and thus to a reduction in competitiveness. electricity prices in the eu for industrial customers have already increased by 45% over the last decade. europe in crisis cannot afford to do this. the more so as the carbon market is functioning well. it does not need to be regulated by successive administrative decisions, especially in times of crisis. the industry needs predictability and clear rules of conduct. in our industry, it takes about 15 years between the decision to build a plant and the decision to rebuild it. chaotic market intervention reduces predictability and holds back investment in energy-intensive industries. it is sufficient to mention the many cases of power plant expansion in poland, among others in opole or rybnik. moreover, backloading appears to be the first step towards raising the 2020 greenhouse gas emission reduction target. this could happen, as agreed by the council and parliament, if the next global climate agreement is reached.
mr. chairman, please! i am very much of the opinion that the increase in reduction targets for europe should only be made in situations where a global climate agreement is reached. the aviation solution we're discussing today is worthy of support. it is based on the idea that a global agreement on emission reductions in this sector must be reached first before an emissions tax is introduced at eu level. so we're suspending the intercontinental flight fee for one year. however, the european commission was forced to do so and to abandon its original ambitions and aspirations due to international protests and even trade wars by partners such as the united states, india and china. it's spectacular. i regret that a similar reflection has not taken place in the european union on the functioning of the climate package, which is very damaging to our economies. i also think that the problem is the competitiveness of european companies, both in terms of the climate package and the issue we are discussing right now.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the report prepared by ms gurmai aims to analyse the situation of the correct implementation and application of directive 113. as the european commission has still not provided data on this from individual member states, which it was originally supposed to do by the end of 2010, it is conceivable that the information contained in the report does not represent the whole picture. the commission notes that the 2013 judgment of the european court of justice has led to legal uncertainty in the social security sector, which even the european commission guidelines published in december 2011 were unable to resolve completely. the insurance sector has faced the need to develop a system for estimating personal risk based on factors other than gender. it is very important that these new rules do not ultimately lead to further discrimination and that everyone, regardless of whether they are a woman or a man, bears the burden of contributions appropriate to their individual situation. i think that the report's proposals are right and i hope that the european commission will take them into account. in particular, the provisions calling for a review of the functioning and effectiveness of equality bodies in individual member states, which are to ensure that the principle of non-discrimination between women and men in access to goods and services is respected, deserve special mention. the call to clarify legislative doubts by presenting a uniform and universally applicable interpretation and implementing rules for the insurance sector on the basis of the court's judgment is no less important. in conclusion, i would like to thank very warmly mrs gurmai for her very pleasant and exemplary cooperation.
the question asked by raising the blue card. madam ambassador, i respect you very much, even though ideologically we probably have a little bit of a difference, but you're provoking me to ask a question with your statement. i am referring to article 19 and its second part, where you said that your group would vote against because you did not want to silence the media. please tell me where such a provision is in this article, because the article reads as follows: we call on the commission to consider we do not order, we merely give consideration whether content transmitted in the media and advertising should not be covered by the provisions of this directive
thank you, mr president! i congratulate my colleague on her excellent report. i call on the commission to submit proposals for the adaptation of the equivalence directive and to provide up-to-date data on its implementation. in poland, debates on the preparation of a law implementing certain eu provisions on equal treatment have been ongoing for years. right-wing conservatism and opposition from the catholic church delayed the implementation of anti-discrimination standards into polish law. only the real threat of financial penalties prompted the government and the sejm to speed up the work and pass the law in 2010. poland has fulfilled the union's obligations minimally and selectively. the law is most critical of its addressees, especially discrimination on the grounds of gender, sexual orientation, race, religion, disability and age. the equality bodies are not effective enough. the polish ombudsman's office is an example of an authority that, instead of acting proactively and anticipating threats, merely reacts to emerging signs of discrimination. poland does not sufficiently implement women's reproductive rights, access to contraception, abortion, prenatal examinations, and sound sex education in schools is limited. the polish media, like other institutions, perpetuate a discriminatory image of women in society. for example, over 85 percent of the people invited to talk shows are men. the situation is bad. in 2012, poland was ranked 53rd in the gender gap index. that's a big drop. in 2011, we were ranked 42nd.
on behalf of the ppe group. thank you, madam president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. i am very pleased to be here today to talk about icelandic fisheries, some of which have been at the centre of a disagreement with the european union for some time. the unilateral setting of mackerel fishing opportunities by iceland is extremely unreasonable and inconsistent with the spirit of cooperation which is the basis of the functioning of the european union. such irresponsible behavior could cause great problems for the herd in the very near future. if iceland uses these new limits, it will exceed the level of catches of these fish recommended by the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) by 35%. in the long run, it will be tantamount to endangerment of the species. therefore, i believe that the issue of such conduct by iceland should be raised in the course of the accession negotiations. it should be borne in mind that the european union has instruments which allow for the application of sanctions in the event of irresponsible management of common herds. it is time for iceland to realise that all candidate countries and member states have the same rules of the game. there is a great need for cooperation, goodwill and willingness to apply the eu's solutions in the future, especially now.
mr. chairman, please! in the past few weeks, the russian authorities have launched a very strong attack on civil society organizations (russian ngos). more than 500 organizations were audited, including such well-known organizations as memorial, voice, for human rights, amnesty international, human rights watch, and transparency international. this is an unacceptable issue. one of the problems for the golos organisation was that it received funding from the sakharov prize, which is the prize that we as the european parliament award. with that money, that prize, she was declared a foreign agent. civil society in russia is being repressed and we should address this issue in the european parliament as soon as possible and send a clear signal to the russian authorities that such practices are against our principles.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to start by saying that we are the first g20 member to implement basel iii and we can congratulate ourselves on that. my colleagues have said a lot, but i would like to draw attention to one more element that i think is important. however, we do not forget the diversity of european markets when we introduce mandatory standards. we are creating instruments that allow for flexibility, but at the same time do not take away the responsibility of individual supervisors for the whole community. i am referring to the flexibility of the principle of maximum harmonisation, which will allow national supervisors to apply, within the so-called first pillar, as they see fit, inter alia, so-called countercyclical buffers, systemic risk buffers and higher risk weights for housing loans. the wide discretion, including higher capital requirements in the area of the so-called second pillar, is also noteworthy.
prime minister of finland. − mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for your comments. the issue of the diversity of the union reminds me of the debate within my own six-party coalition. almost all opinions are contained in one government, and i have got used to finding a compromise on the different values and different opinions and to trying to find a way forward. (interruption from the floor)yes, we only have one prime minister, and that is a difference. ladies and gentlemen, i enjoyed many of your quotes from margaret thatcher, and i would also like to quote her when she once said that pennies do not drop from the sky and we have to earn them down here on earth. that is very true, and i think we can all agree with her on this. i would like to comment on some larger entities, like a rule-based union and the rule of law. just because i am a fan of a strong rule-based union does not mean that it would represent a hardline school of thinking on europe. on the contrary, i believe the rule of law – a good, strict rule base and living according to rules – is the very essence of democracy. it is like having a soccer team and playing soccer without a common rule base; it does not make any sense. so at once the eu is a union of values and also a union of democracy. we have to underline that we have to live according to our common rules and respect the rule of law – otherwise we do not have anything; we are just a team with nice words but without a common commitment. so that is why a rule base and the rule of law are so important to my mind. many of you are worried – as we all are – about the future of the welfare society, and whether the austerity policy or consolidation of the budget will hit the welfare society too hard. our interpretation of the welfare society is that, first of all, we have to be competitive enough to earn enough money for it. and the other way round: the welfare society is a precondition for equal opportunities for all. my country is very dependent on external trade. nearly 50% of our income comes from foreign trade, which means that in order to run a very generous welfare society we must be competitive not only in europe and not only with the northern countries, but on a global scale. this is because the welfare society needs such a lot of money that we cannot afford to run it with finnish taxpayers’ money alone; we need money from outside. that is why competitiveness and all the reforms which we need to make in order to improve competitiveness every single year are essential in order to strengthen the welfare society, which gives equal opportunities to everybody. that is one of the reasons why we have cut our budget and raised taxes by approximately 3% of gdp during the last two years. we have done this in order to safeguard the welfare society. we also lowered the corporate tax rate in order to make our country more competitive on a global scale, because we have very good education in finland, we have such good surroundings for innovation and we have invested in the welfare society for decades and now we want to profit from those assets such as the welfare society, education and our innovation system. so fiscal discipline is the best friend of the welfare society. it is not a theory; it is just plain common sense. a second thing: there were a few colleagues who mentioned mutual debt. i am quite hesitant about this because i can see that we have already had a eurobond and we have seen the result. during the first decade of the existence of the euro, all the countries belonging to the euro received money at the same value, and this is part of the problem at the moment. i know that there are different opinions on this issue, but i am not that sure that a common debt would be a solution to our current problems. moreover, it would mean some kind of treaty change. we should not mix the current short-term challenges and difficulties with long-term solutions. if we wanted to create a eurobond, which would be joint and several, to me it would be like creating religion without the devil. even though we do not like the market forces right now – especially in the current situation where some countries are under heavy pressure from the market side – if we allow the market forces of the financial market to make the same mistake they made during the first decade of the existence of the euro, then it will not help us in the long run. by the way, the financial market did not differentiate between the member states, and that does not make any sense. in a market economy you have to know in which country or in which company you are investing your money, and there are several risks, or the level of risk varies from country to country or from company to company. that is why i would pay more attention to competitiveness (which is the best way to stimulate the economy) and to consolidate our budgets. this is what, for instance, ireland and portugal are, quite rightly, doing at the moment. we can already see some results. i was in portugal, where i met ordinary citizens. i got the impression that many citizens in portugal are very close to losing all hope. i understand that situation, because this time is probably the most difficult for the portuguese and irish people. the citizens have already taken the bad-tasting medicine and the fever has come down, but the disease is still there. but, as we can see from the reactions of the financial market and the export and external balance figures in portugal, we can already see some results. we just have to be patient. i am not asking the ordinary citizens to be patient, because they are suffering every single day. they are suffering. but what is the alternative? if these countries stopped consolidating their budgets, who would lend them money? i do not know of anybody. so we have to show solidarity in order to help these countries. we have to make sure that we stand by them, but the countries in trouble must also do their share in order to get good results. very briefly, i would just like to say to mr callanan that europe has been a great opportunity for finland. during its membership of the european union, we have gone from thirtieth to third position in a competitiveness study. we have to struggle every single day and every single year in order to improve or maintain our good position. it has also improved our foreign trade and strengthened our welfare state. i very much agree with what mr verhofstadt said and with his attitude about the importance of europe. i do not see any reason to even speculate about the fall of europe. it does not make our life any easier. we just have to correct the mistakes or weaknesses that we have in the currency union. we have basically already done that, and i believe that after a couple of years the euro area and europe as a whole will be stronger than ever before. there were some questions concerning federalism. i tried to talk in straight terms about the facts and issues, not raising the debate in abstract terms like federalism. when somebody asks whether i am in favour of federalism or not, i have to ask whether that is the united states type of federalism or the german type of federalism, or even the uk type of federalism. which federalism are we talking about? in this speech and in several previous speeches i have tried to assess what we need to do for europe in order to make it more competitive, stronger and more united. let us have this debate through the issues. what do we have to reform? what are we satisfied with and what are the biggest challenges ahead of us? regarding a transaction tax, i understand the logic behind it. in principle i do not have anything against it, but if we had taken it to finland, knowing that sweden will never take it and that estonia does not have it, we would have lost money and it would have harmed our own economy. i did not want to do that. regarding tax evasion, i appreciate european parliamentarians actively fighting against tax evasion because it is a cancer of the market economy. we cannot afford to see a situation in which we have lived for so long. this is one part of making europe more competitive, namely finding concrete solutions to tax evasion. i am very happy that the commission has been so active on this issue and i appreciate parliament’s activity in this. no matter what ideologies we are representing, i think we all – or at least the majority of us – are in favour of a fair and transparent market economy because it is the best way to create and generate welfare for our citizens. thank you very much for this debate.
in writing. competitiveness is a key element in ensuring the effective functioning of a market economy. the existence of competition provides benefits to consumers by keeping prices low while maintaining good quality. the combination of these two factors motivates producers to seek innovation, which contributes to the development of the whole economy. this is why the commission's efforts to maintain competitiveness in european goods and services markets are so important. the communication presented on the commission's activities in 2011 shows that the commission's activities addressed priority issues and were carried out effectively. the commission's contribution to the regulation of the financial sector was particularly important, as it is a sector on which the activities of firms in other sectors depend to a large extent. it is important that not only the symptoms but also the causes of problems are eliminated and that banks are required to make changes to their business models. the banks were encouraged to focus on their core business. the crisis and the economic slowdown have led many sectors of the economy to benefit from state aid. it is therefore an important task for the commission to monitor that the fight against the effects of the crisis does not lead to long-term distortions of competitiveness. equally important are the commission's actions to promote competitiveness in those markets where there is an imbalance of power. this is the case in the food market, where attempts are made to strengthen the bargaining power of agricultural producers. interventions are also needed in markets where there are no adequate incentives to lower prices as a result of high barriers to entry.
mr. chairman, please! network security is a major challenge in a world where not only consumer use of the internet but also business activities online are becoming more common. apart from the issues related to the occurrence of serious criminal offences, which remain the domain of the police, individual users suffer various types of harm from other internet cooperators. all sorts of fraud are rampant. recently, however, there has been a growing trend of personal data being targeted and surveillance by software companies to exploit personal data without the knowledge or consent of users. in view of the above, it seems justified not only to continue the functioning of the network security agency but also to extend its tasks. the efficiency of the institution will only be guaranteed if it keeps pace with the rapidly developing cyberspace. cooperation with the member states' data protection authorities should also be extended.
in writing. − the digital world is developing very rapidly and is an essential part of the lives of europeans. this fact presents new challenges. more and more activities are taking place online, which requires the continuous improvement and maintenance of cybersecurity. consumers are exposed to a variety of dangers, including financial fraud and identity theft. that is why i strongly support the work of the european network and information security agency (enisa), which aims to increase the capacity of the european union, the member states and the business sector to protect and respond to network and information security issues. enisa also offers assistance and advice to the commission and eu countries. in order to achieve even greater effectiveness of the agency's activities, cross-border cooperation between member states and the systematic involvement of third countries is also necessary.
in writing. − i support the initiative to strengthen and modernise the european network and information security agency (enisa) and to give it a new mandate for a further 5 years. the agency has been in existence since 2004 and it is time to adapt its activities and capabilities to the challenges of the rapidly evolving digital world. the extension of the agency's mandate, the clarification of its role and objectives in the regulation and the increase of the budget for operational activities seem to be reasonable recommendations for the creation of a more efficient body. while the cost of the new tasks of the agency is estimated to be an additional cost of eur 1 to 1,5 million, it is necessary for the agency to be operational and to address the network and information security aspects of today's cybercrime threats. enisa should also establish closer relations with the national authorities responsible for the protection of personal data in order to ensure an adequate level of protection for citizens throughout the community. in addition, the agency should be empowered to engage in dialogue and cooperation with third countries and international organisations in order to adopt a common approach to potential threats. i also agree with the proposal to move enisa's headquarters from heraklion to brussels, which will increase its visibility, allow for better contact with the eu institutions and - importantly - reduce its running costs.
in writing. − computing and networks have become an essential part of the daily lives of european citizens. the rapid development of communications networks and information systems inevitably raises the issue of their security, which raises increasing concerns in society. the increasing number of security breaches has caused significant financial losses, weakened user confidence and harmed the development of e-commerce. an attack on key information systems could have a serious impact on the provision of services essential to the well-being of european citizens. the rapid growth of internet connections and the expansion of networks make security requirements even more urgent. individuals, public administrations and businesses have introduced security technologies and security management procedures. however, apart from some administrative networks, there is no systematic crossborder cooperation between eu countries on this issue. the european network and information security agency (enisa) aims to enhance the capacity of the european union (eu), the member states and the business sector to protect, identify and respond to network and information security issues. in addition, enisa offers assistance and advice to the commission and eu countries. at the request of the commission, enisa shall assist the commission in technical preparatory work on the updating and development of eu legislation. furthermore, enisa facilitates and extends cooperation between the various actors in the public and private sectors in order to achieve an adequate level of security in the eu countries. that's why i'm in.
in writing. - it's good that there's a report that protects whales. i hope this will help to combat the steady and dramatic decline in the population of this species. the objective of the common fisheries policy is to exploit biological resources in water while respecting the principle of sustainable development, taking into account economic, environmental and social aspects. the report presented addresses these challenges and that is why i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. − the objective of the common fisheries policy is to exploit biological resources in a sustainable manner, taking into account economic, environmental and social aspects. therefore, the community should, inter alia, minimise the impact of fisheries on marine ecosystems. member states are also required to establish a system for monitoring incidental catches and killing of these species in order to allow further research and conservation measures to be taken. member states should also use acoustic devices to prevent whales from approaching fishing gear, thereby effectively reducing bycatch of whale species during fishing with static nets. it is also necessary to monitor fishing activities to obtain reliable data on incidental whaling and, therefore, to establish and report regularly on fishing monitoring plans so that the data are reliable. i think it's the right thing to do, and that's why i supported this project.
in writing. − the commission (dg mare in cooperation with its fisheries attaché in mauritius and the delegation of the european union to mozambique) will ensure regular monitoring of the implementation of this protocol, in particular as regards the use of fishing opportunities by operators and catch data. in addition, the fisheries partnership agreement provides for a joint committee meeting at least once a year, during which the commission and the member states concerned shall meet with the third country to discuss the implementation of the agreement and the protocol thereto. as regards the implementation of sectoral support, the protocol provides for annual meetings of the parties to assess the results of the implementation of the multiannual sectoral programme. the protocol also provides for the possibility of adjusting the financial compensation for sectoral support. i think it's the right thing to do, which is why i voted yes.
in writing. − in two years, the austrian mep received over 1400 letters of invitation and offers from various lobbyists. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of personal data in the event of a breach of the data protection rules is based on the principle of proportionality. the ep has already lifted the immunity of hans-peter martin after he was accused of having used money earmarked for reimbursement of election costs for private purposes. german mp jan philipp albrecht is demanding that mps make public all their contacts with lobbyists. voters would then have a better idea of who they can consider an independent politician. there are meps who are constantly at the service of powerful industrial complexes and there is no transparency on this matter. therefore, any corruption case should always be solved. if that were the case, the decision-makers can't hide behind immunities.
in writing. − at the meeting of 17 january 2013, it was reported that the german competent authorities had forwarded a request for the waiver of the immunity of mr jürgen creutzmann in connection with proceedings initiated by the public prosecutor's office in frankenthal. the chief prosecutor in frankenthal intends to initiate criminal proceedings against jürgen creutzmann under § 229 of the german criminal code on the basis of the allegation of the commission of a crime of causing bodily injury by negligence. the chief prosecutor of frankenthal informed by letter of 5 november 2012 that the driver of the vehicle, jürgen creutzmann, had not given way to another vehicle. the result was a collision between the vehicles, resulting in a serious injury to the passenger of the other vehicle. therefore, the chief prosecutor in frnkenthal intends to prosecute jürgen creutzmann. in the light of article 9 of the protocol and the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure of the european parliament and the german basic law (grundgesetz), the legal affairs committee sees no reason why jürgen creutzmann's immunity should not be waived. i support that motion.
in writing. − at the hearing on 10 september 2012, it was reported that a letter of 9 july 2012 was received from the vienna public prosecutor's office requesting the waiver of the immunity of mr evald stadler in connection with the proceedings before the austrian judicial authorities. in a letter of 9 july, the vienna prosecutor's office stated that ewald stadler was suspected of having acted in collusion with another person as an arsonist on 22 december 2006. edward stadler is also accused of blackmailing the austrian ambassador. in addition, ewald stadler is also suspected of having committed perjury before the regional criminal court in vienna on 24 january 2008. any suspicion of public officials should be cleared without hindrance. if that were the case, the decision-makers can't hide behind immunities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr frédéric daerden on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund to help over 1500 workers of the italian company antonio merloni s.p.a. who were made redundant as a result of the changes in the structure of world trade caused by the global financial and economic crisis. the resources transferred from the fund are intended to be used for the organisation of vocational training and upgrading, job search assistance, support for entrepreneurship and business creation, as well as job-search allowances, employer's allowances, travel and residence allowances. i believe that the funds provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund will help the redundant people find the jobs they need.
in writing. − the provisions of point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allow the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) by means of a flexibility mechanism within an annual limit of eur 500 million over and above the limits of the relevant headings of the financial framework. the rules applicable to the egf contributions are laid down in regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund. on 29 december 2011, italy submitted an application under the name of egf/2011/023 it/antonio merloni for a financial contribution from the egf, in respect of redundancies in the company antonio merloni spa in italy. following a detailed examination of the application, in accordance with article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, it has been established that the conditions for the granting of a financial contribution provided for in that regulation are met. i consider such actions to be most justified, especially if, in the perspective of a few years, such aid can bring about real effects in the fight against unemployment and economic growth, at least on a micro scale.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by angelica werthmann on the launch of the european globalisation adjustment fund for displaced agile workers to enable them to reintegrate into the italian labour market. these redundancies were very large and covered almost the entire territory of the country. this has led to a deterioration in an already difficult labour market situation. the resources transferred from the fund will be used for the organisation of vocational training and upskilling, support for entrepreneurship and assistance in setting up a business, as well as employment subsidies, reimbursement of travel costs to work and a contribution to the costs of moving to a new place of residence in order to take up a new job. i believe that these measures will contribute to effectively assisting the dismissed in their rapid return to the labour market.
in writing. − the provisions of point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allow the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) by means of the flexibility mechanism, within an annual limit of eur 500 million over and above the limits of the relevant headings of the financial framework. the rules applicable to the egf contributions are laid down in regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund. on 30 december 2011, italy submitted an application egf/2011/016 it/agile for a financial contribution from the egf, in respect of redundancies in agile s.r.l., a company active in the ict sector in italy. following a thorough examination of the application, in accordance with article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, it has been established that the conditions for the granting of a financial contribution laid down in that regulation are met. aid measures to help firms recover from a crisis are fully justified.
in writing. − the provisions of point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allow the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) by means of a flexibility mechanism, within an annual limit of eur 500 million, above the limits of the relevant financial framework headings. the rules applicable to the egf contributions are laid down in regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 establishing the european globalisation adjustment fund. on 20 december 2011, following the exemptions of austria tabak gmbh and 14 austrian suppliers and producers downstream, austria submitted an application for an egf financial contribution under the egf application no egf/2011/010 at/austria tabak. following a thorough examination of the application, in accordance with article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, it has been established that the conditions for the granting of a financial contribution laid down in that regulation are met. any aid which is aimed at improving the situation of the undertaking concerned is most appropriate. that's why i support this motion.
in writing. − in the context of the vote on the report on the greenhouse gas auction timetable, i supported amendment 20, which rejected the ec's proposal to expect the suspension of 900 million co2 allowances from 2013. in my view, the current emissions trading system is a well-functioning market mechanism for achieving the climate targets set. last year, greenhouse gas emissions in poland fell by a further 3.2%, and in the eu by 1.4%. the 2008 climate package is being effectively implemented by eu countries. therefore, the commission's intervention in the greenhouse gas auction schedule, the so-called backloading, aimed at artificially increasing the price of co2 emission allowances, is an unjustified proposal for me, especially in times of economic crisis. high prices for allowances can directly translate into higher electricity prices for households and industry, thus reducing their competitiveness on the global market. on the other hand, the agreement reached in the climate package makes it conditional on the modification of the targets set therein from the acceptance of binding commitments by other countries, including china, india, russia, brazil or the usa, to a similar level of reduction. if that is not the case, i see no reason to discuss changing the objectives for europe, especially since the eu is realistically and ambitiously pursuing them.
in writing. − in the vote on the report on the timetable for the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances, i was in favour of rejecting this project, although i agree with the general idea of reducing co2 emissions and moving towards a green economy. the introduction of backloading, i.e. partial postponement of the auctioning of allowances in order to raise the price of those allowances in later years, would be too drastic an intervention by the european commission in the emission allowances market. in addition, the commission proposal derogates from the treaty provisions because the member states were omitted from the consultation process, using as legal basis article 192 (1) tfeu, which is not relevant for the amendment of this directive. the proposed provisions are not exclusively environmental in nature but also have an impact on the diversification of the energy structure. the appropriate legal basis should therefore be article 192 (2) (c), which provides for unanimous consent to the special legislative procedure and after consulting the ep, so that eu countries would have the possibility of opposing any changes in the directive that threaten their economies. the proposed rules give the commission too much discretion in determining the appropriateness of such intervention and thus the possibility of artificially and arbitrarily regulating the emission allowance market on the basis of unverifiable premises. this would have a negative impact on revenues to the budgets of countries applying for the possibility to allocate free allowances under the derogation, i.e. for poland, which could lose up to around eur 1 042 million between 2017 and 2020. as a result, citizens would bear the costs of increasing energy prices and thus final goods and services.
in writing. − balance problems have arisen in the eu ets. the economic crisis, together with the implementing rules for the next accounting period, has led to an excess of allowances. according to this proposal, by the end of 2011 the surplus was 955 million and this figure will increase as the supply of allowances exceeds the demand, the carbon prices have fallen from eur 30 per tonne of co2 to around eur 7 per tonne of co2. in order to stimulate the economy, encourage investment in low-carbon technologies and decarbonise the european union from high-carbon infrastructure, the proposal proposes that the commission may adjust the auction schedule if necessary. such action would be limited to exceptional circumstances, such as the current eu ets situation. it should be stressed that the proposed solution is short-term and does not guarantee the long-term stability of the eu ets. businesses will have one more variable to consider, beyond market mechanisms, administrative decisions by the ec. moreover, the increase in ets prices will have a negative impact on costs for manufacturing industry, contributing to a decline in the eu's competitiveness on the international market. this will result in closures of workplaces, redundancies and the relocation of investments outside the union. instead of focusing on a short-term panacea, action should be taken to create long-term conditions for economic growth, including reforms of the eu ets after 2020.
in writing. − the european greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme (ets) is a highly exciting issue. no one denies the need to fight global warming. on the other hand, it is also clear that different countries have different carbon emissions from their energy systems. these differences are not usually the result of a conscious political decision but are the result of historical circumstances. poland's energy sector is still largely based on hard and brown coal. as a result, poland is one of the countries whose competitiveness is most likely to be weakened by the ets. the european commission's proposals to freeze part of the greenhouse gas emission allowances have therefore caused considerable excitement in poland. the authors of this proposal made it clear that they intended to increase the price of emission allowances. this would directly affect the competitiveness of the polish economy. the need for electricity producers to purchase additional allowances at a higher price would also have an impact on the budgets of polish households, as this cost would inevitably be reflected in the amount of electricity bills. there are also arguments that the freezing of part of the allowances could undermine confidence in the whole system. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report on the timetable for the auctioning of greenhouse gas emission allowances and, within that framework, against the commission's proposal.
in writing. - this is good news for poland. we have defended our position and convinced the majority of the european parliament to adopt a sensible climate policy. the european union is on the path to reducing co2 emissions and there is no need to artificially interfere with the emissions market, as we have proved today in the vote.
in writing. - at today's plenary session in strasbourg, the european parliament rejected by 334 votes to 315 the european commission's proposal on 'backloading'. the european parliament's decision on directive 2003/87/ec on the emissions trading system means that it does not agree to unacceptable interference with the originally adopted market pricing mechanism for co2 emission allowances. meps' rejection of the commission's initiative may also have been influenced by europe's 'isolation' in its efforts to reach a global climate agreement. the absence of such an agreement means that the adoption of further, very costly climate initiatives is not delivering the expected global impact and is undermining the already reduced competitiveness of european economies. today we have given a clear signal of opposition to the continuation of the costly and irrational so-called green policy.
mr. chairman, please! unilaterally imposed environmental taxes are proving to be a major obstacle to the operations of air carriers, increasing the cost of connections. they therefore reduce the global competitiveness of european airlines. attempts to apply these solutions to non-community carriers have failed. the us authorities will certainly take all possible measures to prevent any damage to domestic enterprises. they already banned the eu ets in december. the imposition of obligations on chinese carriers threatens to withdraw orders for airbus aircraft from beijing. the community's approach has also been particularly strongly criticised in canada and india. it is therefore necessary to speed up the talks within the international civil aviation organisation. i am in favour of the implementation of the so-called stop-clock proposal for aviation emissions trading, without any additional restrictions, as some members of the environment committee have advocated. unjustified fighting with economically strong partners in europe simply doesn't pay off.
in writing. − i support and support the positive trend from the last meeting of the council of the international civil aviation organisation (icao) as it offers a chance to reach a final agreement in september on the enforcement of the obligations of aircraft operators for flights to and from the eu under the emissions trading system (ets). however, a decision to suspend the system is not, in my view, a good solution to ensure that 'global' decisions are taken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from aviation. although the emissions of these gases under the kyoto protocol have increased by around 100% since 1990, the reference year, the aviation industry is only obliged to reduce emissions by 5% by 2020, while other industries must reduce emissions by 21%. it is incomprehensible to introduce exceptions only for this business sector, and moreover to apply different criteria for individual market 'players'. the exemption should cover all flights within the eu and to and from the eu, due to the need for non-discriminatory treatment of european carriers. the international agreement on aviation emission reductions should aim to create a system ensuring a level playing field for all aviation operators. the european commission's action on the temporary suspension of the eu-ets, on the other hand, introduces exceptions and privileges at the very beginning of this path. as the commission proposal does not treat all air operators involved equally, i did not support the proposal in the final vote, but only abstained.
in writing. − under the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) and the kyoto protocol, the parties, including the then 15 ec member states, committed themselves to reducing greenhouse gas emissions into the air. the reduction target for the ec was set at the level of emission reductions for all then ec member states and was 8%. member states chose to use the option provided for in article 4 (1) of the kyoto protocol, which allowed states parties to conclude an agreement on the joint fulfilment of reduction commitments. the european union has set up a system of trading co2 emission allowances to meet its reduction target. the legal framework of the scheme was established by directive 2003/87/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 13 october 2003 establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community and amending council directive 96/61/ec. the trading system was intended to enable the eu and its member states to meet their greenhouse gas emission reduction commitments by trading greenhouse gas emission allowances within the union in a cost-effective and economically efficient manner. directive 2003/87/ec was transposed into polish law by the act of 22 december 2004 on greenhouse gas and other substances emissions trading.
in writing. - we've all felt the rise in airfare recently. one of the reasons was the imposition of an additional charge on the airlines. for some time now, they have had to pay a carbon tax on their flights. will drivers in the european union soon be charged similar fees for driving? where does the european commission's ingenuity in imposing further charges end? the document to be voted on today concerns the kyoto protocol. it is an important agreement and it is a pity that it is only respected and implemented by the eu countries. unfortunately, its provisions are a serious blow to europe's competitiveness as a community. in times of crisis, can we afford to pay higher energy prices, higher air fares and higher living costs? no, i'm not going. that's why i voted against it. i think it's time to think about the future direction of the climate commission.
in writing. − the adopted package of directives is not only to limit bonuses for bank heads, but above all to force financial institutions to adopt more prudent policies, including by accumulating more good quality capital, which will reduce the risk of their transactions and help them survive in times of crisis.
in writing. − the adopted package of directives is not only to limit bonuses for bank heads, but above all to force financial institutions to adopt more prudent policies, including by accumulating more good quality capital, which will reduce the risk of their transactions and help them survive in times of crisis.
in writing. − additional equity buffers are intended to strengthen the resilience of the banking system to losses and to adapt lending to business cycles. the introduction of minimum levels of penalties is intended to ensure compliance. the importance of external credit ratings will be reduced. the parties concerned by this directive are credit institutions, investment firms and supervisory authorities. the benefit of such action is the creation of a capital buffer that will strengthen the institution's ability to cope with losses without recourse to state aid. the countercyclical capital buffer is questionable in many respects. the introduction of minimum penalty rates does not guarantee that supervision will be adequate to do so, the eba should be given more powers. replacing external ratings with internal ratings will not necessarily lead to a better risk assessment, and the implementation of basel iii only in the european union will not strengthen the stability of the financial system and will have a negative impact on the attractiveness of europe as an investment location.
in writing. − a higher quality of ground handling at european airports is not only important from a transport perspective but also from a single market perspective. consumers, passengers travelling in the single market, have often encountered problems such as lost luggage or flight delays caused by the quality of ground handling. the number of passengers is increasing year by year, which is also a consequence of the increasing and so important mobility for the single market. i voted for the report because we need such minimum standards which will greatly improve the quality of ground handling, because these standards will have to be respected by companies dealing with passenger and aircraft handling. the companies in question are responsible for transporting passengers from the terminal to the aircraft, unloading and loading luggage or unloading aircraft. the provisions concerning the maximum waiting time for baggage, the minimum number of persons to receive baggage and the appropriate amount of defrosting liquid in airport tanks are particularly important for passengers from a practical point of view. another important aspect is the legislation aimed at opening up the ground handling market, which will require the number of ground handling companies to increase from two to three at airports with more than 15 million passengers a year.
in writing. − the last decade has seen an unprecedented increase in the number of people travelling by air. europe was, in a sense, united only when the average person could afford to fly across the continent. this has not only helped to strengthen the single market based on the free movement of people, but has also allowed union citizens to get to know each other. it is not conceivable that this was made possible to a large extent by the previous directive liberalising the market for groundhandling services at airports. since its entry into force, the cost of passenger services has fallen dramatically, which has affected air ticket prices. it can therefore be hoped that the adoption of the proposed regulation will improve efficiency and the overall quality of service at airports. there are voices that this may contribute to worsening working conditions for those employed in this sector. i think the opposite is true, and the added value will be to focus more on passengers and to improve the standard of their service. therefore, together with the liberalisation of access to this market, minimum requirements should be introduced to improve the quality of service and the functioning of airports. however, it is important that those conditions not only respect the safety rules and arrangements and the airport safety management systems, but also maintain relative stability in this market area. i therefore voted in favour of the rules' rapporteur's report.
in writing. − many eu citizens have experienced problems on a number of occasions when travelling by air delayed flights, lost luggage, check-in queues are just some of the difficulties that travellers have to face. that is why, in the european parliament, where we represent the interests of our constituents, we are working on rules that will help to remove the biggest constraints and simplify procedures so that europeans can reach their destinations freely and safely. the report on ground handling at european airports aims to introduce minimum quality standards for passenger handling companies, increase the number of companies allowed to handle passengers, thereby increasing competition and reducing prices, and harmonise certification rules, so that a company that has been approved to handle passengers in one country can provide services at airports across the eu. this initiative will certainly contribute to raising standards of passenger service and make it easier for all of us to use european airports.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by the member of the rules committee on groundhandling services at european airports because i want to support the proposal put forward to further liberalise the market, inter alia by increasing the number of companies providing groundhandling services at airports above 15 million passengers in order to ensure healthy competition and lower prices for services. i also think that the provisions in the report which provide for the so-called minimum standards which passenger and aircraft operators will be required to respect are important. the document also guarantees, among other things, a maximum waiting time for luggage or a minimum number of persons accepting suitcases. this will probably help to improve the handling conditions at european airports considerably.
in writing. − the regulation on groundhandling services at airports is a major step towards improving minimum standards and increasing the competitiveness of european airports on a global scale. the new rules will contribute to improving the quality of services and working conditions of staff. the new rules include a maximum waiting time for luggage and a minimum number of people to accept suitcases, which will greatly improve travel comfort. the document also regulates the number of companies dealing with passenger and aircraft handling. the number of such airports will increase from two to three at airports handling more than 15 million passengers per year. it is worth noting that an increase in the number of service providers will not only improve quality but also lower prices for the services they provide. the regulation forms part of the so-called 'airport package', which, in addition to the ground handling aspect, also regulates the allocation of take-off and landing times, the permissible noise level of take-off and landing aircraft and the standardisation of approval procedures for companies providing services at airports. this procedure allows, for example, a polish ground handling company to provide services at any other eu airport. i therefore decided to vote in favour of this document.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on groundhandling services at union airports and repealing council directive 96/67/ec (com(2011)0824 – c7-0457/2011 – 2011/0397(cod)). this piece of legislation was crafted for the citizens in that it sets the standards for customer service at a high level while at the same time increasing safety and efficiency. far too often the airports are unprepared and unknowing of the situations that may arise, thus the new groundhandling liberalises the airports to be better prepared for any or all situations and provides the needed services for the customer. the further liberalisation of groundhandling will further induce competition, which will in turn improve the quality standards. we all can agree that competition plays a vital role in a market economy such as ours and these types of legislation allow for growth and improvements across the board.
in writing. − the report aims to assess the implementation and application of directive 2004/113/ec of 13 december 2004 implementing the principle of equal treatment between men and women in the access to and supply of goods and services. unfortunately, the european commission has not yet presented country-specific data. for this reason, the information contained in the report is not comprehensive. i appreciate the work that mrs gurmai has done in preparing this report, but i do not agree with some of the premises, which is why i voted against it. i think it is incomprehensible in the context of this report to raise the issue of the sale of contraceptives and abortion.
in writing. − gender equality is one of the main objectives of the eu's gender equality policy. it is not only sanctioned by law but also manifested in various areas of social life, such as the labour market, access to education and services and participation in decision-making. the union is strongly committed to tackling gender discrimination both within its member states and far beyond the community's borders. the eu institute for gender equality is an important body for collecting and analysing information on gender inequalities. it helps, inter alia, to establish a dialogue between the social partners, to exchange experience in problem-solving and to raise the awareness of union citizens about discrimination. a report presented by the institute a few months ago shows that women are only three per cent of the heads of enterprises in the eu, two per cent of ministers, nine per cent of university rectors and fourteen per cent of ambassadors; they earn on average two euros less per hour than men in the same positions, and they spend 13 hours more on household chores than their partners. so in terms of equality, there's still a lot to do.
mr. chairman, please! trade, investment and direct aid to the poor countries of the south are both desirable activities. they are consistent with the principles on which the european union is founded and also pursue its economic objectives in different regions of the world. this activity is aimed at achieving sustainable economic growth for all partners and serves the transfer of technology, the improvement of professional skills, the development of different economic sectors and competitiveness. this policy, as well as the clearly defined objective of deepening regional integration, is beyond doubt. the demands of some meps for the private sector to become more important and more involved in trade are also aimed at stimulating the economies of these countries. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. - we all know that the least developed countries need the most aid to achieve sustainable growth and development. where citizens are facing structural problems, unemployment, exclusion and social inequalities, a range of actions and investments are needed to restore the country's economic excellence and international competitiveness. trade and investment are tools that can help to remove many of these barriers. in developing countries, foreign direct investment can launch programmes which only through appropriate coordination at both local and regional level can raise the level of development and improve the living conditions of citizens. the emerging economies' trading capacity is in itself a driving force for sustainable growth. it is important to ensure that profits are invested in further development and that trade liberalisation does not come at too great a cost to unprepared economies. by providing a prudent support to developing countries, based on a fair and stable legal and trade framework, and of course respecting fundamental human rights, we can help them to overcome difficulties that they cannot easily overcome on their own.
madam president, i am afraid that, despite the unprecedented measures taken by the bank thus far, the end of the crisis still remains a rather distant prospect. i can imagine that over the coming months and years the bank will remain alert to the risks which are still looming on the horizon. i would like to mention some of those risks which relate to monetary policy. my first comment is on the monetary transmission mechanism. president draghi has mentioned on several occasions here that european economies are not benefiting from the relaxed policy stance because the monetary transmission channel remains dysfunctional. but it is also true that, if the loose monetary background persists for too long, it may lead to the misallocation of resources, with all the resultant long-term consequences. secondly, we might not be seeing inflationary risks in europe yet, but the day when we witness a shift from the current, rather loose policy stance to a monetary tightening is probably approaching, and it will be essential to make sure that monetary policy adjustment is complemented by an adequate fiscal policy stance, ensuring an appropriate macroeconomic policy mix, otherwise we will further burden the vital drivers of europe’s growth engines. i understand that the ecb must internalise these upcoming challenges and address them in any future policy decision, orchestrating its efforts with those in charge of fiscal policy in europe.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? i am a rapporteur for three institutions: the european external action service, the european court of auditors and the court of justice of the european union. before i go on to talk about these three important institutions, i would like to say that i absolutely agree with my colleague, mrs češková, about the council's arrogance. i was a reporter three years ago in this very area, and it's a constant part of the game. the council treats the european parliament as if it were looking down on us from the 15th floor, and we are sitting on the ground floor. it is the same all the time. as regards the european external action service, i wanted to emphasise the need to improve substantially and decisively the geographical balance in recruitment and appointment of staff in relation to the countries of the so-called 'new union'. this division into europe a and europe b still exists for the ecsc and the new union's share is still very low compared to the eu-15 countries. i also wanted to say that the european external action service often operates outside the rules. this results in, for example, improper payments to employees and wage uncertainty for temporary workers. the financial regulation is also not being respected. other problems include: the issue of non-recovery of vat, the issue of violation of public procurement rules. these are all problems facing the european external action service and i highlight them in my report. the very high amount of funds transferred is also a negative point. finally, there are clear shortcomings in the recruitment process, as well as a problem with tendering procedures. these are specific errors and sins of omission. i call for greater transparency in terms of competences and administrative structure and for the elimination of the double competences that are very common. as regards the court of justice of the european union, the court of auditors' opinion is positive. i note that the former court of first instance, and the court of first instance has a very large number of cases at present (1300 in 2010, 1308 in 2011), are still ongoing cases, so-called 'current cases'. this court obviously needs to hire more people, that's obvious. i pointed out the positive aspect of the savings of eur 150 000 achieved through increased computerisation through the e-curia application. finally, the court of auditors once again calls for the timetable to be respected, including the preparation of the so-called special reports. the court of auditors needs to adopt more reports on time, which means improving its efficiency. we suggest that the court of auditors should attach to all reports special remarks indicating the chronology of the various stages of the reporting process, from initial preparation to publication.
draft opinion of the committee on regional development - thank you very much, madam president! the regional development committee referred to section 3, i.e. the european commission's discharge, for discharge and the commission requested the committee on budgetary control to grant discharge in this respect. at the same time, we wanted to make it clear in our position that we should continue to work on assessing the effectiveness of the policy. and the effectiveness of the policy is not just the compliance with the procedures, that is, the number of errors, but above all the effectiveness of the policy. it should be said that the number of tools we have in this area is rather limited. therefore, on the one hand, we are seeing fewer and fewer errors, and on the other hand, we are trying to keep a very precise track of all the changes proposed for 2014-2020 that should have a certain impact, in particular in the policy based on shared management. i don't suspect these changes are very modest. if we really put them into practice, if we really apply ex ante assessment and very thorough controls, then i think the effects will be visible. for today, we propose to grant a discharge.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs češková, on her sound report on discharge to the european institutions. in times of crisis, the european institutions have a particular obligation to manage their budgets effectively, to achieve high rates, to use resources and cut unnecessary costs, and to take action to support the institutions in their efforts to modernise their management. but when it comes to the council, we are faced with a repeating story every year. the council still disagrees with parliament on the informal agreement of the 1970s, and the most irregularities have been found in the analysis of the council's budget. the level of non-use of funds has increased and remains high. the internal audit revealed irregularities in the contracts of some employees, and concerns were raised about the level of transparency. in addition, recommendations from previous years were not implemented and questions and requests for clarification sent by parliament and members of the committee on budgetary control were not answered. it is worrying that all the union institutions are applying the same standards of transparency and the council is not making any progress in this regard. we have therefore decided once again to postpone the decision to grant the council discharge for the financial year 2011, in the hope that the council will be encouraged to engage in dialogue and cooperation on budget implementation and control.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? there are problems of a purely financial, organizational nature. we talked about them, and i think there's a lot of improvement. this is of great importance, especially in times of crisis, as the european taxpayer is particularly sensitive to the management of eu funds and to the way in which the various eu institutions, such as the court of auditors, the court of justice of the european union and the european external action service, manage their own budgets. these are political issues and we shouldn't keep quiet about them. there is a question (as i said in my report) of a certain balance when it comes to recruiting and appointing officials from the so-called 'new union' of the 10 countries that joined the eu in 2004 and the two that joined three years later. this is of course a political problem, not just a legislative one. if we do not want to have europe a and europe b, we must solve this problem. i think it is very important that parliament should have such a genuine supervisory role. it builds the european parliament's authority vis-à-vis our voters, vis-à-vis the european taxpayers, and it also enables the european institutions that we control to do better.
ladies and gentlemen! in times of crisis, all the eu institutions must save, they must cut back on their spending. i therefore welcome the report by monica hohlmeier, who is doing just that. in this document, it describes, and its proposals are subsequently supplemented by the european parliament's committee on budgets, the savings in the parliament's budget, the further planning of the reduction of expenditure, and - as a matter of importance - the report describes the fruits already borne by the european parliament's efforts to reduce its budget. this is the case, for example, with the benefits of the existing policy on buildings, which is linked to the restriction of rent and the restriction of rent costs. all of this is very important. i would like to stress, however, that the savings must not infringe the principle of multilingualism, but they must not lead to discrimination against members on the basis of the country of origin in which they were elected. i would like to mention a few important proposals for savings which i hope will be maintained throughout the budgetary procedure and will become a matter of habit in the european parliament, namely the continuous and sustained effort to reduce and rationalise the costs of interpretation and interpretation services. first of all, it is about joining forces with other institutions, with the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions, reducing the costs of translation during delegations, for example by using local translators, but also, perhaps - i think this option should be studied - outsourcing some of the written translations to external companies to reduce the burden on our translators and the burden on office space. i would also like to express my support for the proposals put forward by the rapporteur, proposals for better, more tailored support for members, for analytical and research support for members so that they can make informed decisions.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. - thank you very much, mr president! i am speaking as rapporteur for the committee on foreign affairs and i would like to stress that the commission adopted the opinion recommending the signing of the agreement almost unanimously. it shows we're not forgetting our purpose. the objective should be visa-free movement, free movement of people. the goal should be to open up to our eastern neighbors. if we talk so much in this house about policy towards ukraine, policy towards other eastern neighbours, i think that anyone who understands anything about european history is well aware that the best policy towards our eastern neighbours is to pursue visa-free travel and at the same time achieve substantial reforms that affect many aspects of life in these countries. i therefore hope that the european parliament will always maintain its anti-visa position and i hope that in the coming months the action plan for visa liberalisation will also be approved (i think of the next stage).
on behalf of the ppe group. thank you very much, mr president! i'm not going to let you do this. dear colleagues! there is no doubt that ukraine is the most important country that has been included, has accepted the invitation to join the eastern partnership programme. ukraine is also one of the most important european neighbours in the east. we all want good relations with this country, not only poles, not only the eastern european members of the european union, but also ukrainians. this is reflected not only in the political declarations adopted by the verkhovna rada, but also in specific agreements that have been long negotiated and have already been ratified, such as the association agreement or the eu-ukraine deep trade agreement. we are aware that not everything that happens in ukraine is acceptable from our perspective. we know that there are problems with the shape of legislation, with political decisions, with the functioning of the judiciary. but we see that the effort to reform the political and economic system is being made to bring it closer to the european community. but the most important gesture we can make on this path - not to the authorities, but to the ukrainian citizens who have the most pro-european aspirations - is to facilitate the possibility of entering the european union. ukrainians have the right to come to the european union, they have the right to easily obtain a visa, they have the right to cheap visas. and this deal is about that. that is why our whole group is strongly in favour of parliament's approval of the ratification of this agreement.
mr. chairman, please! we often wonder in this house how we can help the ukrainians on their way to the european union, and we often blame the ukrainians for creating their own problems. today we have the opportunity to help this nation and this country on its way to the european union, to european standards, to european privileges, to live by these principles, which are today the experience of 27 countries. i think this visa debate is a classic example of how you can try to help the ukrainians, because i am deeply convinced that it is in the interest of the ukrainian people, as the ukrainians themselves know, but it is also in the deep interest of the european union societies. i am glad that we are going to have a majority on this matter, although the critical remarks you have made show that it may not be an absolute majority and that it is a small majority.
mr. chairman, please! the parliament of ukraine approved the agreement on the liberalization of the visa process in relations with the union. that's very good news. the agreement significantly extends the categories of citizens eligible for simplified visa registration, in particular for business, academic and family visits. our aim should be to regulate visa-free travel with ukraine as soon as possible, as this will strengthen the ties between kiev and the family of european nations. only 3% of applications have been rejected so far during the agreement's existence, which clearly shows that the ukrainian society not only poses no threat to the member countries, but actually contributes to the development of mutual trade contacts, exchange of information and transfer of knowledge. the visa waiver process for ukrainian citizens travelling to community countries should not be made dependent on the political climate of the two sides. i am pleased that the proposed changes will make it easier for civil society representatives, ngos, journalists and students to travel. it is also worth noting the abolition of fees for urgent applications and the exemption from the visa requirement for short-term visits based on biometric passports. i look forward to similar proposals for georgia and moldova.
mr. chairman, please! in politics, there are big things and there are small things, and they're important, but they're small. when we talk about what the european union's relations with ukraine are, let's remember that today the stakes are ukraine's association with the european union. this is the real deal. the visa regime is a small step away from the shameful procedure of harassing people who want to come to the west, including people who want to come to the parades of equality in warsaw or berlin. let's not confuse the big things with the little things. just as i am for all those who are harassed because of their sexual orientation to have their rights guaranteed in ukraine and in russia and in all the countries of the former soviet union, i would not like to confuse these two regimes, because these are completely different things. let's remember one more thing, we are sending a political signal to ukrainians who are thinking about whether we look at their lives, their relationship with the european union in a positive way. it must be a positive signal, and we'll do big things in vilnius at the summit. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i have no idea how my short speech was interpreted, but i said that it is wrong to compare the big strategic issues which are association agreements with smaller but very important issues which concern the lgbt minorities. in other words i do not want to put this on the same level, but i do want to recognise it as a very important issue. i hope michael cashman, who is with us, knows that i am really on this side of the determined fight in poland, ukraine and all the countries around.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 18 april 2013 at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (rule 149)
the next item is the preliminary report by mrs danuta maria hübner, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal for a council regulation establishing an instrument for financial assistance to member states whose currency is not the euro (com (2012) 0336 - c7-0129/2013 -
rapporteur. − mr president, the focus of crisis-driven reforms has been mainly on the euro area and rightly so, due to the need to rethink the original architecture of the single currency. however, as we move forward with reforms, we must not forget to keep the eu united and to preserve the integrity of the single market. with these thoughts at heart, the revision of the balance of payments (bop) facility stresses the need to also take non-euro member states on board when it comes to the provision of financial assistance for macroeconomic difficulties. in an attempt to contribute to the catching-up process, the revision of the bop will allow non-euro member states to also have access to the precautionary and enhanced conditions credit lines. these instruments will ensure that risks are addressed early along the road and potential difficulties tackled before they become fully-fledged threats to financial stability which, as the experience of the crisis has shown, can produce contagion effects. the bop revision does not merely grant further financial assistance rights to non-euro members, it also puts forward corresponding obligations through a toughening of surveillance measures during and after the granting of financial assistance. the bop revision spells out the guidelines which debt-sustainability analysis and the macroeconomic adjustment programme should follow, stresses the importance of realistic forecasts and enhances the transparency of this process by promoting an interinstitutional dialogue on financial assistance. the afore-mentioned requirements which non-euro members will be subject to are modelled on the two-pack, the legislative duo dealing with budgetary matters and financial assistance in the case of the euro area, and they thus constitute an eu harmonisation effort with the single market at heart. the need to have an enhanced bop is justified, especially in the context of the ongoing debates on a european banking union. if the banking union is to succeed, its members will need to be treated in a fair and equal manner. this is why non-euro member states, which will opt in to the single supervision mechanism, will need to be provided with an appropriate set of rights and duties. a key issue in this context is offering non-euro members a fiscal backstop, since supervisory decisions taken by the ssm may have harsh fiscal implications and elicit a need for bank recapitalisation. european leaders announced that once the ssm is up and running, the esm would be able to directly recapitalise banks. my proposal in the context of the revised bop proposal is to put forward an indirect bank recapitalisation instrument for non-euro member states participating in the upcoming ssm. under this label the governments of these non-euro member states would be able to take out loans for the purpose of recapitalising the financial institution. as the european financial stabilisation mechanism (the efsm), which replicates the bop for the eu 27, will soon be discontinued, its unused lending capacity worth eur 10 billion could be transferred to the bop. in the long run, should the revision of the esm treaty be discussed, we could then consider the option of allowing non-euro members participating in the ssm to contribute to the bank recapitalisation instrument of the mechanism, with a view to potentially also benefiting from it. to conclude, the revision of the bop sends out an important message which goes beyond the issue of financial assistance, namely that a greater harmonisation of reforms across the union is ultimately beneficial to euro and non-euro member states alike and, above all, is in the interests of the single market.
rapporteur. − mr president, i shall be very brief. i would like to react to the comments made by my epp colleague mr ferber on his worries about bank recapitalisation and access of non-euro member states of the european union to a bank recapitalisation fund. i would like to say that this parliament endorsed not so long ago the ‘opt-in’ mechanism for non-euro member states to the single supervisory mechanism. we all know that, within the single supervisory mechanism, there might be situations in which the supervisor will impose recommendations or requirements on national financial sectors that might lead to the recapitalisation of the banks. i therefore think that our responsibility should go beyond the ssm, and we should see how we can help those member states to have access to recapitalisation funding based on loans. secondly, when we talk about the transfer from the efsm (which will soon be discontinued, when the esm enters into force), this is not the transfer of remaining funds but of lending capacity. therefore, i think that there is also a difference in this context. finally, i would like to thank everybody with whom i had the pleasure of discussing this report over the last two or three months: all the rapporteurs and all those who participated in this extremely edifying debate today.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 17 april 2013. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on regional state aid by danuta maria hübner, on behalf of the committee on regional development (o-000017/2013 – b-70115/2013).
author. − i would like to start by reminding you that, in its resolution of 17 january of this year on state aid modernisation, the european parliament asked to be associated with the preparation of the proposals for state aid modernisation. i will be brief, because the oral question is well known to the commission and to commissioner almunia in particular, and i will focus on what we are worrying about here in the european parliament and especially in the committees involved. as we are now negotiating the regulatory framework for 2014-20 on regional policy, we see that some of the provisions of those regulations lose their rationale when regional aid guidelines (rags) come in, and we need maximum consistency between the regional policy – its investment in growth, jobs and competitiveness – and the state aid rules. we are worrying about these new rules – wondering whether this is really the best moment politically, economically and socially for actions leading to lower population coverage, reduced state aid and state aid intensity. we worry about the restrictive impact of the new rules on investment and growth in regions which graduate from the less-developed category and move to the more-developed one. we also expect the commission to take into account the situation in economies which are particularly strongly hit by the crisis. for them, public funding provided by regional policy might be the only source of investment, and these are member states where the worsening of the economic situation is not reflected by the data for the period 2008-2010 which will be used by the commission as the basis for eligibility. in this context a mid-term review clause would allow the new situation to be taken into account. that being so, my original question is: why has the commission not proposed a fixed date for the mid-term review (as is the case today) but instead has left this option open? we are worried about the commission’s rag approach to the internal diversity of regions, where growth is mostly driven by metropolitan areas with many nuts 3 areas lagging behind. we believe that well-balanced transitional arrangements are needed. in the current legal and political context in which the committee on regional development is involved in this ordinary legislative procedure on the cohesion policy legislative framework, it is important that the commission continues its dialogue with us in order to clarify all the relevant points and also to reduce the risk of undesirable effects of the guidelines. while hoping for this further collaboration, i would also like to emphasise the importance of close cooperation between all commissioners, especially commissioner johannes hahn and commissioner joaquín almunia, because we believe this cooperation might make the rules an undertaking that would allow us to make better use of all the potential of the regional policy in the context of the post-crisis situation and europe’s dramatic hunger for growth and job creation and with a view to a more competitive european economy.
mr. chairman, please! the main challenge in the current debate is the complementarity of european policies and therefore the coherence of action between the different forms of support for the different actors. i would like to make it clear that when we as parliament negotiate regulations in cohesion policy, it is not very important for us whether we are negotiating with a specific directorate, for us these negotiations are being conducted with the european commission. if we are negotiating with the european commission, it means that we assume that there is internal consistency in the approach to regional aid between the different directorates, between the different commissioners. we are in the process of finalising the negotiations on the european regional development fund. one of the most difficult points is support for large enterprises. after many very difficult discussions with the council, we have come to the conclusion that support should be allowed, particularly where innovation is concerned and where cooperation between large and small enterprises is concerned. the point is to ensure consistency in the approach here, because if we agree that it is possible in one place and it will be limited in another, there will be a discrepancy. i think if the commissioner were at our committee meeting, we could clear this up. this is really urgent.
i'm closing the debate.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! you speak here of criticism - mr verhofstadt - with such emotion of european democratic values which you believe are being violated in hungary. but is it sincere? are you two hypocrites? is it not true that you have made hungary into a proverbial whipping boy just because, to your despair, the hungarian people, in free, democratic elections, rejected the political correctness promoted by brussels? he spoke for conservatism, for the christian values that were written into the hungarian constitution, he spoke for the description in that constitution of marriage as a union between a man and a woman, he spoke finally for the rejection of cosmopolitanism and he put on identity, community and the construction of a functioning state. and he taxed big multinational corporations: banks, hypermarkets. it was obvious, you had to find that boy to beat, you had to attack him. i would consider your arguments to be sincere and your intentions to be true if you would take the same approach to violations of democratic standards in other countries, such as bulgaria, poland. i myself have written to mr verhofstadt and mr martin schulz many times in this room, informing them that after the civic platform came to power, journalists were fired en masse from the public media for being critical of the government, and that the british media company mecom had to give up its shares and withdraw from poland because it ran the most opinion-forming newspaper critical of the government. it was later taken over by, by the way, a private friend of the government spokesman. the government is blocking the digitization of multiplex space and wants to remove a catholic tv station that has been operating for 10 years from the market because it is critical of the government. the 2.4 million signatures that citizens have submitted are of no interest to you. the country that the commissioner represents has five times fewer citizens than the number of signatures filed in protest against the discrimination of tv trwam, critical of the government. what did mr. verhofstadt do about it? i was talking to you. are you a democrat, and your concern is freedom, or is it to attack hungary because it is conservative?
in writing. − voting to grant parliament discharge in the financial year 2011 shows that eu funds were correctly controlled and managed by our institution. while 2011 was a challenging year, amid the financial crisis, parliament was able to implement its budget in accordance with the principles of good financial running. thanks to a number of smart reforms, parliament managed to save almost eur 40 million in 2011, a sum subsequently incorporated into the 2012 ep budget. yet, real and serious savings can be achieved elsewhere. based on the estimates of the ep bureau in 2002, over eur 200 million, equal to 20 % of the ep’s budget, could be saved annually by having one working place for the ep. while parliament is still bound by the eu treaty to work from three places, i am encouraged that the adopted text asks member states to revise parliament’s working places in the next revision of the treaty by amending protocol 6. i also welcome the repeated request for a road map on the multiple seats of parliament, to be presented by june 2013. now more than ever we must find ways to improve the efficiency of our work, demonstrating to eu citizens our commitment and financial responsibility.
2011 was the first year of operation of the european external action service and therefore the absence of flagrant errors in the implementation of the budget of this institution is certainly noteworthy. only the fact of the documentation of incorrect payments to some employees and the complicated legal situation of temporary workers can cause concern. irregularities revealed in the procurement and tendering procedures require immediate clarification. the most significant problem, however, is the continued geographical imbalance in recruitment and appointment. the share of workers from the new member states is dramatically lower than in the old 15. i cannot agree with such a ruthless discrimination against the representatives of poland and other countries which have joined the community in the past decade and which have excellent, extensive organisational and scientific facilities. i expect urgent action to be taken to improve this situation. i therefore think that the question of discharge for european diplomacy should be postponed.
in writing. - the european external action service is poorly organised and therefore very expensive. when it was established in 2010, i submitted amendments to introduce national quotas for the filling of posts in the eeas. this would allow for better use of the potential of the workforce and reduce personnel costs. all the opinion-makers in the report underlined the shortcomings of poor human resources management and the lack of national quotas. it's time to change that.
i would like to refer to the report on parliament's preliminary draft revenue and expenditure for 2014. it is worth recalling that in 2014 the european union plans total expenditure at eur 130 billion, including eur 1.7 billion for the european parliament. this will be a budget lower than in previous years. in times of crisis, you have to look for savings everywhere. we should also look for them in parliament. in our case, this should be a real dimension, showing also to all the other eu institutions that the savings should be applied to absolutely everyone without exception. i think we can find such savings in parliament's budget by saving on the rental of buildings, saving on travel, and also by striving to reduce the number of parliament staff. i am in favour of parliament's budget being smaller than it has been up to now.
in writing. − this year’s report on estimated revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2014 is particularly important. next year is the first financial year of the eu’s mff 2014-2020. moreover, 2014 will see the next european parliamentary elections. the adopted resolution confirms a net increase of 3.29% in parliament’s budget for 2014. this rate is lower than the initially-proposed 3.58% increase, and it is linked to expected expenditures of the 2014 european elections. being the only directly-elected institution in the eu, the ep must ensure that taxpayers’ money is spent in a responsible way. therefore we must continue identifying areas where savings can be made in order to make our institution more efficient and resourceful. one such area is the ep’s multiple seats. significant savings estimated at eur 200 million a year could be achieved if the parliament were to work in one place. in this context i am pleased that the adopted resolution includes a reference to the seat arrangements by urging the budgetary authorities to include the issue in the ongoing negotiations on the mff 2014-2020. in times of difficult economic conditions we must show our financial responsibility by delivering results in areas that are important to our citizens.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported the preliminary report by mrs danuta hübner on the proposal for a council regulation establishing a financial assistance instrument for member states whose currency is not the euro. this document modifies to a large extent the provisions of the previous legislative act of february 2002. the need to update it was linked to the need to keep pace with developments in the euro area, where a number of measures were taken to prevent possible future debt crises. i am pleased that both euro-area and non-euro-area eu member states facing balance of payments difficulties will be able to benefit from similar financial assistance instruments, including loans and credit lines. the hübner report also considered the development of an instrument comparable to the european stability mechanism (esm) that would allow banks to be recapitalised for non-euro area countries participating in the single supervisory mechanism (ssm). i would like to thank the honourable member for her work and congratulate her on the outcome of today's vote.
in writing. - contrary to the recent statements of the uk prime minister david cameron, the euro is the currency of the european union. this is clearly stated in the treaties and will not change with the increasingly eurosceptic policies of london. therefore, when adopting further measures to stabilise the situation in the euro area, it is necessary to take account of those member states outside the euro area which will sooner or later adopt the single currency. this awareness was apparently lacking in the commission when it prepared the regulation in question. the lack of a recapitalisation facility for banks in non-euro area member states in the financial assistance toolbox is a major mistake. if we are to create a banking union open to all countries, we must also create mechanisms to take account of different scenarios. the commission apparently only foresaw the collapse of the banks in these countries, without the possibility of rescuing them by recapitalisation. the rapporteur rightly points out that in order to prevent problems, rather than simply to solve them on an ongoing basis, the tools for recapitalising banks in difficulty are needed. this is a much simpler mechanism than the process of restructuring and orderly liquidation. the rapporteur has proposed specific solutions to this problem which could form the basis for the development of specific mechanisms. however, this requires the goodwill of the commission, which was apparently lacking in the absence of appropriate consultation. that is why i voted in favour of mr hübner's report.
in writing. − 2011 was a challenging year, with the increase in inflation compared to 2010 mainly due to rising fuel and energy prices and, to a lesser extent, food and other commodity prices. moreover, the decline in the level of loans to enterprises and households has further constrained the economic growth of these entities. the main objectives of the european central bank are, first and foremost, to maintain price stability and to support economic policy. i would like to point out the difficulties faced by the european central bank in 2011, which were the result of the ongoing economic crisis. maintaining the flow of credit to smes has been and remains a particularly important issue, and while there is a possibility of exceptional support to the financial system by the european central bank, further such action will prove ineffective without obliging institutions that benefit from such support to increase their level of lending to such entities. to sum up, i would like to stress that the above problems, which arose in 2011, can only be reduced if a comprehensive and far-reaching solution to the euro area crisis is implemented, based on an approach combining solidarity and responsibility. according to eurostat statistics, unemployment in the euro area reached a historic high of 12% in february this year. policies to stimulate growth and create jobs must therefore be a priority for the union to be taken into account in the future work of the european central bank.
in writing. − the hague convention of 23 november 2007 on the international recovery of child support and other forms of family maintenance is an important instrument for citizens, as it establishes a mechanism under which it is possible to enforce obligations, in particular maintenance obligations, relating to children. the report by mr lopez isturiz, which was voted on today, is a formal endorsement of this convention, which is a condition for its application in the european union. although this is a procedural step, it is a necessary element for the smooth functioning of the convention system, as the changes introduced by today's report will allow the entry into force of this document in the union as soon as possible. it is not necessary to recall here that the provisions of the hague convention will certainly contribute to the quicker recovery of maintenance payments, which are currently extremely difficult to enforce in cross-border cases.
madam president! we start with congratulations, because my country - poland - knows how difficult it is to go to the european union, how long this road must take, but also the accession of croatia to the european union is perhaps a signal of the emergence of a new idea in europe, something new, because the accession of croatia is not only the joining of another country, but also gives hope that the union does not close. we have spoken so many times about the door to the union, which should be open. so many times we think in the context of ukraine and in the context of other countries that it is somewhere far away, that it is unattainable, that we are talking about it here now, but that champagne after the victory, after this accession, someone will drink it someday. today croatia is showing us all, commissioner füle, that it is possible, that we have to work as we do, and that we are succeeding. this is a good sign of hope for all the countries of the european union, and it is not just croatia that needs to be given hope today.
the draft resolution on the comprehensive monitoring of croatia, presented by the committee on foreign affairs, alongside the classic eu newsletter, reads: ...the european parliament calls on croatian political and social actors to examine innovative systems for maintaining momentum and reaching agreement on reforms... calls on the croatian authorities to step up the fight against corruption, financial abuse and misuse of funds. parliament also called for the existing instruments to be used to combat corruption in order to ensure impartial and successful judicial proceedings and judgments. we also call for judicial reform and the fight against organised crime. i recommend that you read the entire report. after reading it, one wonders whether croatia is really ready to join the european union and whether in the medium term we will not face a problem similar to the one we have discussed today in cyprus.
madam president! by accepting croatia as a member of the community, we are taking an important step in the process of enlargement in the balkans. this is a very important signal to the other countries of the peninsula and contributes to the deepening of european integration. economic cooperation with croatia has been in place for many years, not least because it is a very popular tourist destination for union citizens. the progress made by the zagreb government over the past year to bring the country into line with community solutions deserves our full appreciation. a number of complex structural reforms have been carried out, including improvements in the justice system, including a strong fight against corruption. the country is well on its way to meeting the latest integration requirements. i am confident that croatia's membership will bring tangible economic and political benefits. polish citizens who go on holiday in the coming holidays will already feel positive changes, for example, due to the reduction in vat rates on tourist services and food. our current objective should be to expand to other balkan countries, with croatia playing a key role.
in writing. the report published last month summarising the accession negotiations seems to confirm brussels' determination to accept croatia into the community. despite the official optimism, there are real fears that zagreb will share the fate of bulgaria and romania. the main reason is that the country has made little progress in reforming its justice system. the recent crackdown on corrupt politicians and officials should be appreciated. however, i am not sure how much of it is related to the current government's determination to fight corruption, and how much is due to the desire to discredit political opponents. in addition, ngos point to the lack of activity by the croatian authorities in combating corruption at lower levels of administration. the highly respected transparency international organization notes that the work on changing the legislation in this area has been extremely fast, which can translate into its low quality and lack of actual implementation. the commission should therefore press zagreb to take intensive measures to safeguard public procurement, protect whistleblowers and prevent conflicts of interest in the civil service. the example of romania and bulgaria shows that the only time when countries can be effectively forced to make real changes is in the pre-accession phase. if we don't do it now, it may be too late.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen! last week i was in croatia. my impression was that croatia was already a member of the european union. there was no sign of the european parliament election campaign, and the elections were held last sunday. paradoxically, even the low voter turnout is similar to other eu member states. in the first european elections in poland in 2004, the turnout was very similar to that of last sunday in croatia. what i found particularly important was the fact that croatians have, in my view, a sense of belonging to the eu for better or for worse. the union is not a one-way street. the union is helpful and supportive in many ways, but it also has its own requirements and expectations. croats understand that connection. this is good, for it helps you to avoid disappointment, excessive expectations, and frustration that results from unfulfilled dreams. croatia faces challenges and croats are not afraid to face them. on the other hand, i have the impression that some of the transitional periods laid down in the accession treaty are too long. in the case of the 2004 eu enlargement, some of the transitional periods were due to exaggerated and unjustified eu concerns. these concerns have not been borne out, and in some cases transitional periods have harmed the eu rather than the new members. i would like to welcome croatia to the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the report presented, although critical, shows that turkey has made significant progress in the recent period, which makes it possible to open further negotiating stages. this is the most important factor in the integration process. in the ongoing work, attention should be paid to the protection of freedom of expression and the media and to ensuring freedom of action for all ethnic and religious groups. the political dialogue with the kurdish minority is particularly hopeful of stabilising the situation. the reforms of the judiciary must be based on the full guarantee of the rights and freedoms recognised by the international community. in view of the security of the member states, we should also look to turkey as an important ally. the country has been a guarantor of stability in the region for years. moreover, ankara's direct involvement in the peace and democratization process in the middle east is a vital interest of ours, which also requires diplomatic support. turkey's key role in providing alternative sources of energy to russia for europe's energy supply is also important. i strongly support the negotiation process on the brussels-ankara line, hoping for significant economic and political effects in the near future.
mr. chairman, please! the adoption last week by the turkish parliament of a long-awaited amendment to the anti-terrorism legislation has a positive connotation and should be welcomed. this is not only a step towards bringing turkish law up to european standards, but above all a hope for change and a solution to a number of fundamental rights violations that have been the source of social unrest in turkey in recent years. as we know, even the best-formulated legal regulations cannot ensure justice and respect for human rights without a reasonable interpretation of them. an example of the misinterpretation of the law is the conviction of the well-known turkish pianist fazil say in istanbul on monday for insulting islam. the court found that the artist had insulted the religious feelings of a section of the population in the comments he had posted on twitter. the same applies to turkish journalists who continue to be arrested under various pretexts, such as under the anti-terrorism law mentioned above for criticism of the turkish authorities. the european parliament must continue to monitor these processes and the judicial reforms in turkey concerning freedom of expression and media. i welcome the fourth judicial reform package, which is a step towards a comprehensive process of judicial and fundamental rights reforms. but we must not forget that the key to real success is to implement and comply with new regulations.
thank you very much, mr president! i'm not going to let you get away with this. fellow workers! i would like to add my congratulations and my thanks to mrs oomen-ruijtem for what i consider to be a balanced report. it was a very difficult question, but i think ria was up to the task. mrs oomen-ruijtem is not here right now, but i would like to say, ria, no one could have done it better than you. now, to get to the substance of the matter, of course, it's said that the scientists are divided -- as you can see in this room, the politicians are divided -- and that's why we have a lot of differences here today. my country poland supports turkey's possible future accession to the european union and of course i am also in favour of continuing accession negotiations. i therefore welcome the unblocking of the negotiations. i think we should open up the next negotiating chapters, and that is precisely why we should show our colleagues, the turkish politicians, the turkish government and parliament, where exactly the problem lies, where there are certain shortcomings, deficiencies, where their policy is wrong. i think that in the course of the negotiations, the turkish politicians will understand the details that they need to fix. the situation with cyprus is clearly unacceptable and we should continue to give priority to the turkish side in this matter as the european union .
the process of montenegro's accession to the european union can be seen in two ways. the assessment can be carried out through a formal and legal perspective or through a political perspective. as for the legal side, we are seeing very difficult progress in changing the legal system in the fight against corruption in montenegro. we also note the increased independence of the judiciary and the increased freedom of the media. however, there is also a second dimension which i believe is particularly important for this country. it is about ensuring europe's security. the most important thing here is that montenegro is clearly improving and stabilizing the situation in the balkans. this is crucial in a region with a difficult history, a region that has often been the scene of conflict and war.
mr. chairman, please! this is another report on serbia's progress in 2012. it also takes into account the important fact that serbia has been granted the status of a candidate country for membership of the european union since 1 march last year by a decision of the european council. it's a difficult path, but it's the only one that needs to be documented. it must also be subjected to multiple tests, as far as serbia is determined. it also involves changing the way the state institutions function, changing the mentality - and sometimes, who knows, that mentality change is the most important thing - in implementing and documenting progress. we also note that there are positive aspects to this stabilisation and association agreement. they are already being expressed in the political changes that have been made in serbia and are still being made. the good integration in trade and the progress in economic change are also noteworthy, although they are not yet sufficient. on the other hand, we have a crisis in the european union and in the world economy. the commission has also made considerable progress in legislative alignment, although we expect more progress in the judiciary and the various democratic institutions. i think that the statement by the deputy prime minister that serbia's ambition is to start membership talks in the spring or summer of 2013 is important here. the first constitutional referendum, which i was an observer for the council of europe, is a testimony to the long way serbia has come. at that time, no one expected that serbia would ever, in any foreseeable time, start negotiations on association and membership, and that is the fact at the moment and i congratulate serbia on that.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, my participation in the committee on budgets' visit to serbia enabled me to supplement the information contained in the report on serbia's progress towards membership of the european union and in the draft resolution prepared by mr kacin. i would like to address two issues. firstly, i think that serbia's progress towards decentralisation, including in the management of the ipa, is a very good sign. however, the delegation of tasks to the local level must be linked to the delegation of appropriate resources, including financial resources. a high level of administrative capacity is key to the smooth functioning of local governments and to the effective use of european funds. therefore, the serbian authorities should focus on the proper training of local government staff. moreover, in the face of rising youth unemployment and declining labour force participation in serbia, a strategic approach to promoting employment is crucial. it is worth noting that the decision to co-finance 134 local employment plans was taken. however, there is concern about the decline in expenditure on active forms of employment support, including the reduction of the 'first chance' programme for young people.
in writing. the future of kosovo is a priority for the european union. it is the eu that should take the lead in improving stability in the region and oversee the process of reaching an agreement on kosovo's future status. it is also in the union's interest to support the political and economic development of that country. the process of rapprochement with the union is a fact, even though not all member states have recognised its independence. the biggest internal problem in kosovo today is the economic crisis. unemployment in this country is nearly 40 percent, and a third of the population lives on less than a dollar a day. the european union should therefore continue and even intensify its aid activities. the country's external problem is serbia's firm refusal to recognize its independence. the eight rounds of negotiations between the representatives of the countries involved and the high representative, catherine ashton, in recent days have once again failed to reach a full consensus. the most sensitive issue is the serb minority in northern kosovo. in the context of the ongoing dialogue between the european union and the balkan countries, i would like to draw attention to the social tensions there and call for an intensification of efforts to reach an agreement between serbia and kosovo and for a more effective engagement in the development of cooperation between the european union and these countries.
thank you, madam president! ladies and gentlemen! the situation, which has already been discussed in some detail by my predecessors, has a very negative impact on the development of fisheries legislation, it worsens the relations between the institutions and it deserves to be explicitly condemned. this dispute between the european parliament and the council has caused a significant delay in the entry into force of many provisions. the council, which has for years considered itself to have exclusive competence in this area, has blocked work on multiannual management plans for individual fish species. the treaty provisions are clear and in article 43 (2) they require the european parliament to co-decide with the council on the adoption of the provisions necessary to achieve the objectives of the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy. however, this provision is still deliberately ignored by the council. we, the members of the committee on fisheries, have taken several initiatives to find a way out of this difficult situation. i have high hopes for today's debate. i hope that it will contribute to finding a just solution and, above all, to the recognition of our competences. i also look forward to the court of justice's decision on this matter. although the procedure is drawn out in time, at least the court's decision will be final and will dispel all doubts about the case once and for all.
thank you, madam president! the european union obviously has limited influence on arctic issues, regardless of whether eu member states are arctic states. the union shall also apply to the arctic council as an observer. i think that there are also countries in the european union that have observer status, like my country poland, which is due to the fact that they are very involved, among other things, in scientific research related to polar stations and the whole related programme that has been developed over the years. in 2011, we worked on a report on the far north. i was working with my colleagues on four amendments. i am very pleased that some of the proposals contained in those amendments have been incorporated in the present commission communication, in particular the question of research infrastructure, the mapping of the seabed for the purpose of determining sea routes. over the past 10 years, more than €200 million has been allocated to research under the framework programmes. this is obviously not enough and we would like more. on the other hand, we believe in the particular importance of the biocenosis that is the arctic. it is of particular importance for climate stability, as well as for natural resources and everything related to the lives of the inuit, the indigenous people of the area. i think any decision to make changes that would interfere with that environment should be very balanced. that is why we must, among other things, talk here in the european union, in this parliament, about the fact that there should be no situations where someone throws a flag on the seabed of the arctic sea and says that this is his territory and that he has the right to do whatever he wants there. it is too great a legacy for europe and the world.
madam president! last october, together with colleagues from 8 countries, my party solidarna polska and the efd group started collecting signatures for a european citizens' initiative called the 'stop package' to suspend the energy and climate package. it has already received a lot of support today. our actions have been supported by thousands of people, mostly trade unions and citizens from a dozen countries. throughout this period, the intention of the citizens' initiative as laid down in the lisbon treaty has been well founded. however, there are some problems with its efficient implementation. this is particularly evident in the case of online registration of initiatives and online signature collection. the european commission was unable to come up with a computer solution that was easy to implement. despite the kindness, professionalism and personal commitment of eu officials, it is still a tortuous road. it certainly does not serve the purpose of involving citizens more in common causes. technology, administration, complex handling and specific data security requirements add significantly to costs and lengthen registration procedures. it takes hours to fill out the forms instead of minutes. there is also a problem with the information layer. there is no specific information on the number of countries where an online signature collection certification system exists. in conclusion, the most important issue is undoubtedly the development of a solution to facilitate and accelerate the registration procedure via the internet. what is important is what has been noted in previous speeches, namely to provide the initiators and the representatives of the citizens with the opportunity to present their arguments democratically in the european parliament. it's not just a culture and a certain bow to the citizens, but a democratic requirement that we stand for.
thank you very much, madam president! i would like the citizens' initiative to be a real instrument for citizens who, apart from voting, have no other means of participating in the making of laws. it is not an instrument for politicians like us in this room, who are supposed to be making laws in the european parliament. so i'm concerned by the voices i just heard about the involvement of mps in collecting signatures for a citizens' initiative. i would appeal very strongly that we not take a space that was designed for others. and the same goes for the unions, as mr. becker said. the same applies to powerful lobbying institutions, which have other instruments at their disposal. i'm not going to let you down. let's not allow them to take away the space that was meant for the authentic voice of citizens, not for political groups or interest groups. maybe the citizens' initiative will need to be revised, but all of us here should be engaged only in informing about this excellent instrument with all its weaknesses, about the new instrument that exists.
in writing. the european citizens' initiative, launched a year ago, which allows citizens of the european union to submit legislative proposals, is undoubtedly playing an important role in shaping democracy at community level. last year, the european commission received 25 such proposals, of which 14 initiatives are currently registered. this is a testament to the success of the instrument and to the willingness of citizens to participate in the decision-making process of the eu institutions. the european citizens' initiative is a response to the crisis of democracy and plays an important role in times of economic uncertainty. it is guided by two fundamental principles: indirectness and representativeness. its main and most important task is to bring citizens closer to the eu. the initiative gives them a direct say in shaping european policy. it is an instrument through which citizens of the member states can influence eu law and submit their proposals for new legislation. the initiative has the added advantage of a wide range of areas to which it relates, i.e. those in which the european commission has the power to submit a legislative proposal. in addition to petitions and the opportunity to vote in elections, it is an additional form of expression of citizens' expectations. i hope that the citizens of the union will use this instrument more and more.
in writing. the european year of citizens is undoubtedly the best opportunity to remind ourselves who we really serve. the european union is often accused of not having direct contact with its citizens, as my constituents remind me, and of having little or no influence on what brussels does. the european citizens' initiative was supposed to fix that. i am far from saying that the first year of operation is a complete failure, because it is not. we're seeing a lot of interest in this instrument, and that's very gratifying to me personally. but we must be careful not to disappoint those who have been awakened to hope. the impact of the eio is limited. additional obstacles of a purely technical nature are therefore simply unacceptable, as is the lack of political will on the part of some countries to commit themselves more to the success of this instrument. we therefore call on the commission and the council to resolve the problems immediately.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! the visa issue is one of the key elements of our policy towards our neighbours to the east. we can't miss a moment to send a very clear signal today. we are for opening up, we are for our neighbors coming to poland. it's the best mechanism for democratization and ensuring all civil rights on the east side of the bug.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending the visa facilitation agreement between the european community and ukraine. this updated document introduces, inter alia, the total abolition of eu visa fees for certain categories of applicants from ukraine, including civil society representatives travelling to the eu for training purposes, young people under 25 years of age attending lectures, conferences, sporting and cultural events organised in the eu, representatives of religious minorities and close relatives of eu citizens. despite the difficulties in eu-ukraine relations, which include the lack of respect by the ukrainian authorities for the principles of democracy, the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary, the european parliament should respond to the needs of ordinary ukrainian citizens. the document clarifies existing regulations and introduces simplified visa procedures, which will benefit young people, journalists, social activists and representatives of religious minorities. this will contribute to more frequent travel of ukrainian citizens to the eu and to intensify mutual contacts. i believe that this will be very helpful to ukraine and its people in the context of the challenges they face and in the realisation of their pro-european aspirations.
in writing. − facilitating border controls with the union's immediate neighbours contributes to closer and better relations between citizens. this will result in more intensive exchanges of services and goods, as well as a deeper integration of societies. the process has resulted in facilitating the transfer of democratic values and human rights to the ukrainian territory. the simplification of procedures and the reduction of visa fees are important in this respect. this will allow better access to visas for young people and those who have not been able to afford the high fees until now. the income gap between the eu and eastern european countries is significant, so these regulations can make a big difference. the eu should open up to its neighbours, because only dialogue and good relations will stimulate trade relations and build order and security on the continent. such interventions are far more effective in building strong bonds than endless and often fruitless summit talks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr claude moraes on the amendments to the visa facilitation agreement for ukrainian citizens, as i believe that the proposed amendments could contribute to the country's closer integration with the european union. i consider it very important to introduce further visa facilitation, in particular for civil society and young people. in my view, promoting youth mobility is crucial to the success of integration and democratic reforms. i also think it is very important to remove the obstacles to the participation of scientists and professionals from different fields in european conferences and exhibitions. i believe that building the widest possible dialogue between the citizens of the european union and the people of ukraine will lead to a better understanding of each other's expectations and help to break down barriers and prejudices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendment to the agreement between the european community and ukraine on visa facilitation, despite the problems that the country is facing. its citizens should be able to enter the european union more easily. it is in their interest as well as in the union's. in this way we will help ukrainians on their way to the european union, in line with european standards, european privileges and the principles that are the experience of the eu27 today.
in writing. − students, young athletes, the press, social activists and representatives of religious minorities will benefit from this decision. this decision shows that despite the problems in ukraine, the union is not turning its back on its citizens.
in writing. − this change is particularly important for poland, as ukraine is one of our largest neighbours. according to various data, there are 400 thousand ukrainians in poland legally and about 200 thousand illegally every day. as long as ukraine is not a member of the european union, its citizens can travel to eu countries, including poland, after obtaining a visa. we should be concerned that this movement is legal, and i therefore regard as essential, in particular, the amendments aimed at significantly simplifying the requirements for documents relating to the purpose of travel, harmonising the rules on the period of validity of multiple-entry visas and providing for the exemption from the visa requirement of holders of business passports, provided they are biometric passports.
in writing. - ukraine is slowly moving closer to the european union. today's report on visa facilitation is a major step in that direction. i voted for his record. i believe that the free movement of people is a guarantee of further democratization of ukraine and its rapprochement with the european community. it also allows for more student exchanges, which, with the additional encouragement and support provided by the erasmus programme, will undoubtedly change the attitude of the young generation of ukrainians towards european integration.
in writing. − this is a very concrete achievement in the process of visa liberalisation with the eu, which will benefit moldovan citizens.
in writing. − the abolition of visas for citizens of eastern european countries is the best tool for promoting people-to-people contacts and developing democratic societies. in february 2012, the commission presented the second in a series of reports assessing the progress of both countries in implementing their visa plans. the documents noted progress in the completion of the plan entries (especially for moldova). while the visa action plans can be considered as the main mechanism for dialogue with the eu on visa liberalisation, the visa facilitation agreements in force since 2008 remain the main real instrument for action in this area. the main result of these measures was a reduction in the price of the uniform short-stay visa (the so-called schengen visa). we should move further towards opening the union's visa regime to moldova. i am therefore glad that we were able to vote on the whole report.
in writing. − among the eastern partnership countries, moldova has long been a leader in european integration. the conclusion of the association agreement negotiations and the record pace of difficult talks on the creation of a free trade area clearly demonstrate the pro-european stance of the moldovan side. it is time for citizens themselves to feel the benefits of their country's cooperation with the european union. the significant reduction of the administrative and financial burden of visa applications and, in some cases, even the total abolition of the visa requirement will undoubtedly facilitate travel to the schengen area for moldovan citizens. the new mechanisms will, above all, be a driving force for economic and cultural exchanges, contributing to the country's development and further strengthening its relations with the eu. i believe that the proposed amendments are a natural consequence of the efforts made by the moldovan government to bring its legal order closer to the acquis communautaire. at the same time, i hope that they will provide an additional impetus for further work in the area of freedom, security and justice. i therefore fully support today's recommendation, because it is not only appropriate but necessary.
in writing. - the financial crisis has impoverished people in many regions of the world. its effects are felt in both the highly developed countries and the poor communities of the south. this situation may cause an increase in economic tensions. the crisis factors presented in ms vaidere's report apply to many countries around the world. consider, for example, the record levels of global unemployment, especially among young people. the need for incentive measures to improve the labour market situation is not disputed. however, i do not see a direct link between the causes of the economic crisis and the increase in discrimination against human rights, especially intentional discrimination. brutal regimes in some lands wage war against their own people for political rather than economic reasons. the threatened dictatorial power will resort to violence and persecution regardless of the economic situation of the country. the main impact on this level can therefore be the intensification of political action against regimes.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to clarify the issue of harmonisation of population data in the member states. the amendments include the establishment of a common framework for the systematic production of european statistics in the field of demography, which governs the collection, processing and transmission of population statistics by the member states. the proposal therefore introduces new rules and new definitions to create a unified pan-european statistics in the field of demography. this will allow comparison of demographic data from local, regional and national databases, to assess data across europe and to promote the exchange of good practice between eu members. this harmonisation proposal is a good idea for the european union, as it will improve the quality of information received by the european commission. because of the different methodologies used in the collection of this type of data in the different member states, the ec has received information that has sometimes been difficult to compare. this proposal will solve that problem.
in writing. - demography is a major challenge for the eu in times of crisis. this is particularly evident in the commission communication 'europe's demographic future: turning challenges into opportunities'. although the message is several years old, it is still relevant today. experts predict that the working-age population will begin to decline in the coming decade as a large number of baby boomers retire. they stress that the increase in the number of older people is primarily the result of major economic, social and medical advances, which enable europeans to live longer in conditions of comfort and safety unprecedented in the past. the ageing of the eu population must be seen in the context of the global increase in the world's population. after increasing from 2 billion in 1950 to 6.5 billion today, the un forecasts a further, albeit slower, growth trend, with the world population reaching 9.1 billion by 2050. about 95% of the overall population increase will occur in developing countries, bypassing europe. as a consequence, the share of the eu-25 in the world population will decline. that is why i welcome the changes proposed and supported them in today's vote.
in writing. − the ship recycling regulation is designed to ensure that european ships are recycled in facilities that are safe for workers and environmentally friendly, and that have the necessary means to neutralise hazardous materials contained in decommissioned ships. the amendments proposed by the committee, however, introduce measures which are too stringent to achieve the objective of the regulation. the amendments proposed include the creation of a european ship recycling fund, which would be financed by fees charged to ships using eu ports, regardless of their flag. i think that this proposal is damaging to the competitiveness of european ports. the need to pay additional port charges will limit their development prospects, as it puts ports in the eu's neighbouring countries in a better position. these proposals carry the risk of changing existing trade routes and the high probability of increased red tape. it should also be added that these additional charges will reduce the competitiveness of maritime transport compared to rail and road transport, which are much less environmentally friendly. for the reasons mentioned above, i voted against the amendments of the parliamentary committee and supported amendment no 120 which calls for a postponement of the decision on the recycling fund until 2015 and calls on the european commission to prepare an appropriate impact assessment of the regulation.
in writing. - i am pleased that poland, during its presidency of the eu, has been able to play an active part in the process of zagreb's integration into the european union. i therefore ask that, given that 24 member states and croatia have ratified the accession treaty so far, the other three countries ratify it in due time. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. i believe that the maturity of croatia's democracy, as confirmed by the outcome of the accession referendum held on 22 january 2012, will confirm that it can live up to the obligations of eu membership. at the same time, i believe that croatia's accession to the eu will have a positive impact on the reconciliation of the people of the western balkans and, consequently, on the democratic consolidation that will lead to further eu enlargement in the future. the enlargement of the union to the western balkans will, on the other hand, open up the possibility of stabilising and developing the region. despite the issues that still need to be worked out, including reconciliation and protection of ethnic and national minorities and the existing border dispute with slovenia, i believe that croatia's strong connection and identification with european culture should be a validation of the decision to join the european union on 1 july 2013.
in writing. - croatia has made tremendous progress in recent times. i'm glad to see that after the elections on sunday, we'll soon be seeing new members of this great country. while the country itself is ready to join the eu structures, the structures themselves and some member states have certain problems. there's still no consensus in the council, and some countries want to block accession to get as much as they can. additional criteria apply which were not included in the negotiating protocol. unfortunately, in this diplomatic game, we all lose.
in writing. − negotiations on turkey's membership of the european union have been ongoing since 2005. turkey has been an important partner from the beginning in economic and political matters, especially in the field of security. turkey's strategic location also remains of particular importance for europe in view of the issue of diversification of gas supplies. economic cooperation between turkey and the union is developing successfully. the union is turkey's main trading partner and the common customs area allows the free movement of goods. but the european union is not only an economic community, it is also a community of values. one of the foundations of this community is religious and political pluralism. we welcome the reforms that turkey has made in recent years in the areas of human rights, media freedom, the rights of ethnic minorities, freedom of conscience and religion, and the fight against violence against women. turkey's humanitarian assistance to the victims of the fighting in syria should also be highlighted. we also look forward to the stabilisation of the situation in the kurdish conflict. the change in the political situation in the region has opened up a new field of cooperation between the kurds and the turks, and the turkish government is taking advantage of this opportunity. relations with israel were also re-established. in conclusion, turkey has come a long way since it started its efforts to join the european union. the application for turkey's membership has been submitted.
mr. chairman, please! montenegro is the first country to be treated under the new negotiating approach, which emphasises issues of democratic governance and human rights. the process, in my opinion, is fully underway. the authorities in podgorica are making systematic progress in implementing the eu recommendations. this is evidenced by several important developments, such as the holding of free and fair elections, the enhanced role of parliament, and the ratification of key conventions of the world labour organisation. a number of structural reforms have been implemented, and the country has a wide range of media that operate freely. as in other countries in the region, high levels of corruption and organised crime remain a problem. the government must take decisive action in this area, which is directly linked to the need for judicial reform and the rehabilitation of the administration. montenegro, on the other hand, plays a constructive role in regional cooperation by being a leader in european initiatives in the balkans, including the policy of engagement for refugees and displaced persons.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the progress of montenegro because i believe it is a balanced and reliable document. during the recent visit of the committee on budgets to the country, i had the opportunity to discuss the challenges of european integration with representatives of the government, parliament and civil society and to learn about the projects being implemented. i would like to highlight montenegro's progress in implementing decentralised governance. the development of an action plan to address the divergences in the ipa components is also a positive signal. i am concerned about the situation on the labour market, the rising unemployment rate and the low employment rate. the montenegrin authorities have managed to maintain a wide range of labour market activation programmes, but it is necessary to increase the effectiveness of the instruments targeting youth and the long-term unemployed. it is also necessary to improve the quality of education and to better match the skills of graduates to the requirements of the labour market.
mr. chairman, please! the opening of accession negotiations with serbia was identified as possible in the current six months. i think that everything must be done to ensure that this happens, because the admission of the former yugoslav countries, following slovenia and croatia, is now part of the eu's rationale. serbia has for years pursued a brutal policy in the balkans, which makes it all the more difficult for citizens of many member states to have a positive attitude towards its integration process. however, the best instrument for stabilising and democratising the region is the accession of this country to the community. this will commit belgrade to european values and put its rule of law under effective control. the report highlights the need for improvements in the areas of human rights, the information society and the media, among others. the importance of normalising relations with kosovo, which is also an aspirant to membership, despite the lack of recognition, was stressed. i am confident that belgrade will make further progress.
in writing. - the western balkan countries which have declared their european aspirations should have full rights to do so. this would improve their economic and social situation and eliminate internal conflicts. the main political objective of the ruling coalition in serbia is to bring the country as close as possible to european union membership, and although the union imposes many obligations on it, serbia should nevertheless take advantage of the opportunity to become a full member of the european community. this process will be beneficial both for the eu's security and for serbia. one of the necessary conditions that a country aspiring to membership of the european union must meet is to engage in a process of building understanding with other countries. serbia should therefore demonstrate that it is able to fulfil this condition. serbia should take the necessary steps in the current situation in the areas of comprehensive and modern legislative solutions, cross-border cooperation, social dialogue, implementation of structural reforms, environmental protection and job creation. only by continuing democratic, systemic and socioeconomic reforms will serbia have a chance of becoming a member of the european union.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! many countries still do not recognize the existence of kosovo as an independent state. today, this region, forcibly separated from serbia, would not be able to exist on its own. its government, budget, energy and every other area of life depends on outside help: eu or albanian. internally tense and divided, the country is a center of chaos and dangerous ethnic conflict. the future of kosovo should be decided at a round table with the serbs and albanians, not alone in this room today. especially since there is no chance of meeting any of the conditions for integration with the eu structures. unfortunately, the eulex mission is not the answer. despite considerable efforts, we have not come any closer to finding a solution to the crucial issue for kosovo, which is to find a balance between the aspirations of the serbs and the expectations of the people of kosovo.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a week ago, vietnam officially became a member of the hague conference on private international law. meanwhile, there are increasingly severe cases of discrimination against basic civil liberties in this country. recently, a dozen people were sentenced in a political trial, mostly bloggers who advocated for civil rights and commented on government policies online. all were charged with so-called activities aimed at overthrowing the people's power and received very severe prison sentences. it is estimated that up to several hundred political activists may be held in prisons. adding to the outrage is the fact that most of those targeted are catholics. local authorities, on the other hand, are making it difficult for religious practices to take place by blocking the celebration of mass. so we can speak of a massive campaign of religious hostility, which is not tolerated in today's world. i therefore appeal to the government in hanoi to stop restricting freedom of expression and to ensure that religious minorities are allowed to operate freely. i call for an open and constructive dialogue with the public on the draft of a new constitution. i hope that the diplomatic engagement of brussels will contribute to the development of democracy in vietnam.
question asked by raising a blue card addressed to marie-christine vergiat thank you very much for taking the question. to be honest, i listened to you for two minutes. i have not heard, however, whether you and your group condemn what is happening there or not. you've talked about the world, but you haven't focused on what's happening in vietnam. i would like to ask you, is it because vietnam was once a communist country and today you, coming from a group where the communist majority is, have such terrible trouble to condemn what is happening in vietnam today? i'm asking you to answer that question.
mr. chairman, please! before i go on to the vietnam issue, i would like to express my opinion that we have a difference of opinion in this house and i do not think that mr posselt has crossed the line of criticising the views of another member (mrs vergiat, to be precise) in this house. i think mr posselt should be allowed to speak. as regards vietnam, i would like to say that there are many countries in the world - and i agree with the honourable member - in which we have problems, problems of human rights violations. that's how we europeans see it. these are countries with different political systems, of course, and we, the eu institutions and the member states, must be consistent. these countries want to work with us, we should consistently call attention to human rights violations.
mr. chairman, please! once again, reports are coming in from vietnam of violations of basic human rights such as freedom of speech and the right to a fair trial by an independent court. the european parliament must stand up for vietnamese civil society. and here i would like to move on to the current discussion. i respect mrs. vergiat, who always stands up for human rights. but as far as what happened today is concerned, i think you, mr. president, have exceeded your authority. the term "trotskyite" is not a negative one. trotsky, who himself contributed to the crime of the october revolution, then became a victim of stalinism. he also questioned the crimes of stalinism and stalin's policies. i don't understand why you find that term offensive. that is why i ask that mr posselt be allowed to speak.
the european parliament cannot fail to take note of the human rights violations committed by governments of those countries which commit flagrant human rights abuses against their own citizens. the long prison sentences of three vietnamese bloggers for campaigning for press freedom and democracy demonstrate the seriousness of the human rights and transparency issues in vietnam. the trials and imprisonment of peaceful political activists for allegedly carrying out propaganda to overthrow the government indicate that the vietnamese authorities have no intention of allowing their citizens to exercise their freedom of speech and basic democratic rights. i therefore call on the commissioner to take all possible steps in her relations with the vietnamese government to support the process of genuine democratization in that country.
mr. chairman, please! i'm glad that we have an audience here today because they can see that unfortunately on issues such as condemning human rights violations in countries like vietnam, our house is not united. it is united by the socialists, the liberals, the greens, the ppe and the conservatives - here everyone thinks that condemning these violations that are taking place is right and important. unfortunately, as you can see, there are people in the european parliament who do not want to condemn the human rights violations in vietnam, simply because they are probably part of the same trend as those who are leading to these violations. it's a good lesson for the state, because we're prepared for it. it's a very sad lesson.
in writing. once again we are hearing about the disturbing incidents of restricting freedom of expression in vietnam. the country is on reporters without borders' list of "enemies of the internet" and ranks among the lowest in the world's press freedom index. in addition to automated filtering and blocking technology, a special police unit constantly monitors the use of the internet by users perceived by the authorities as a threat. democracy and freedom of speech remain the dream of the vietnamese people. therefore, despite facing severe penalties, bloggers continue to inform fellow citizens, filling the gap left by state media. however, the government has consistently tried to restrict their activities by persecuting those who question the policies of the state. as a result, dozens of journalists have been jailed. numerous ngos periodically award prizes to vietnamese bloggers, drawing international attention to the plight of vietnamese freedom of expression activists. this year, five vietnamese bloggers were among the 41 recipients of the hellman-hammett grant. the european parliament, as the guardian of democracy, must finally speak out on behalf of those who are denied the enjoyment of basic civil rights. let us remember that only freedom of expression gives a chance for society to develop and only the immediate release of the convicted can allow the continuation of the political dialogue between vietnam and the european union.
mr. chairman, please! there was no catch-the-eye after the last debate, and i'm holding a blue card to ask the last debater a question, and you're not giving me a vote.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. relations with kazakhstan are undoubtedly of particular importance to the european union, as it is a country with a major political role in central asia, a region of strategic importance for global security. it is good that the european parliament is once again rightly expressing concern about the situation in that country today. we are concerned by reports from kazakhstan on human rights problems and violations of democratic standards in the functioning of the state. we expect the kazakh authorities to restore the proper standards of democracy and human rights as soon as possible in all cases where these standards may have been violated, such as in the case of mr kozlov. we have doubts, however, about the content of the joint motion for a resolution, which contains formulations that are sometimes too far-reaching and often unverified and not preceded by a hearing of the other side. in this context, it is difficult for us to support the joint motion for a resolution, since we consider that the resolution prepared by the ecr group, which i warmly urge to support at this stage, is much more objective and better. (the speaker agrees to answer the question put to him in accordance with the blue card procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
thank you, mr president! the european union sees kazakhstan as a strong partner in central asia, as reflected in the partnership and cooperation agreement that is planned for the future. however, this agreement is conditional on progress in the country's pursuit of reforms guaranteeing democracy and respect for fundamental rights and civil liberties. meanwhile, the human rights situation in kazakhstan has deteriorated sharply over the past year. after clashes between police and protesting oil workers in december 2011, many activists and journalists were jailed alongside strikers. among those imprisoned was vladimir kozlov, the leader of the opposition party, who was sentenced to 7.5 years in prison. after a series of secret trials closely linked to kozlov's case, a kazakh court suspended his party and key independent media. if kazakhstan wants to continue talks on cooperation with the european union, it must stop blatantly violating human rights, curbing the activities of the opposition and political arrests under the pretext of fighting terrorism.
thank you, mr. chairman, of course your apology is accepted. i understand there's been a misunderstanding. now, to the point. it is true that mr watson, mr donskis and mrs geringer de oedenberg, and others, have mentioned vladimir kozlov. his situation today seems the worst because he is suffering for seven and a half years just for wanting freedom and democracy for his country. i have information for you. i consulted with peter boris. today in the hall, here in the gallery, is vladimir kozlov's wife aliya. if i may ask, let's give her a round of applause and give some encouragement to her husband and all those who are fighting for human rights in kazakhstan. (laughter) (applause) it is true that the relations between the european union and kazakhstan are important and will become more important and should become more important, but this should not be at the expense of human rights and people like vladimir kozlov.
i have had the opportunity to receive vladimir kozlov in the european parliament on several occasions when he spoke about human rights and the need for dialogue. i also had the opportunity to be with and speak to the prosecutors immediately after his arrest. i was also in kazakhstan for the second time when i was a witness at his trial. i believe that there is a need today for an intensive dialogue between the european union and the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and the kazakh authorities. i believe that if kazakhstan has the ambition to be a major player in central asia, the host of expo, it must open up to human rights and respect them. that's why i think we should absolutely monitor v. kozlov's case, help him get a pardon from the president of azerbaijan. i think we should use methods like the last delegation of mr cox and mr kwasniewski. let's try to use all the politics to free those people who are in prison today. really, let's help them because it's our duty.
mr. chairman, please! the kazakh authorities have violated freedom of speech and freedom of assembly. it is unacceptable that journalists who are critical of president nazarbayev are deprived of their right to practice their profession on this basis. we should remember the human rights defenders who are in kazakh prisons. this is a reprehensible way of dealing with political opponents. the kazakh authorities should be made aware that strengthening the eu's bilateral cooperation with the country will only be possible if kazakhstan respects international agreements on the protection of human rights. in conclusion, and in the light of the previous debate on vietnam, i think that these words should be heard. you can't accuse anyone here. mrs. vergiat was talking about how she condemns human rights abuses in vietnam. those words should be spoken.
thank you, mr president! in 2009 and 2013, the us administration publicly confirmed its intention to close the guantanamo bay detention facility. however, no progress has been made in this respect. guantánamo holds more than 160 prisoners suspected of involvement in terrorist activities. most of these have not been charged with any specific offenses or have not been subjected to any formal judicial process. in february, half of the detainees went on hunger strike to protest against the inhuman treatment and unlawful detention. there were also physical clashes between prisoners and guards. the inhumane treatment of prisoners by the us authorities and the detention of persons without trial and without binding charges are in breach of international human rights obligations, which also bind the us. immediate action should be taken to dismantle the prison at guantánamo and to transfer detainees to their countries of origin or to other countries where there is a risk of persecution.
mr president, my group, the epp, is against this motion. first of all, we are responding to the decision of the council. we have to do it in a speedy manner. it is not against the treaty, and we passed a resolution on this exact topic with a large majority in this house.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i would like to begin by thanking mr reul for his report, which is so sensible in its attempt to deal with the confusion surrounding renewable energy sources. i think there's a lot of confusion about that. today, each country has its own policy, its own support system, and in this way it distorts the competitiveness and the functioning of the internal energy market, which is a fundamental objective of the european union. therefore, i think it is very important to create a single european project on renewable energy and to integrate it into the eu internal market. unfortunately, this issue is blurred in the report, but the pan-european support is also an opportunity to strengthen the cost-effectiveness of renewable energy sources that we are talking about. we cannot agree to waste our money on national projects where, for example, solar panels are installed in regions where there is no sun and wind turbines in regions where there is no wind. solar panels should be used primarily in the south, where the sun is, not just because there's money for subsidies. the commissioner mentioned that investors need certainty, but there is a lot of uncertainty and confusion because the commission proposes far-reaching targets, but on the other hand, when it thinks there is confusion in the market, it backloads, it reduces the use of biofuels, which are a very important part of renewable energy in many countries. so on the one hand, we set certain goals, and on the other hand, we make all kinds of changes that shake that. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).)
the answer to the blue card question. this question is not very difficult for me, because i strongly support the development of country specific sources and the creation of our own national blends. i was simply referring to the fact that we should not introduce various market-distorting subsidy schemes, whereas i consider that a binding target of 40% or 45% is far too high, precisely because of the specific nature of individual countries and their economies. i think that's the first thing we should discuss and focus on, because the targets are too high and shouldn't be restrictive. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).)
the answer to the blue card question. i believe that the energy sources that are important in a given area should be used. i just wanted to say that we shouldn't build solar farms in those parts of europe where there are no conditions at all, and there are governments or states that want to fund this kind of policy. a certain rational way of managing subsidies should therefore be introduced. and that's the most important thing. and i might say, by the way, that just as important as the need to build infrastructure, as the previous speaker has emphasised, is the need to build infrastructure, because often the green members of this parliament are opposed to gas and the building of gas infrastructure, and it is also necessary for the development of renewable energy. we also need consistency.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to say to the member for lange, who said that tomorrow is 2020, no, tomorrow is 21 may 2013. but i wouldn't throw out this present-day baby with a bathtub, and as a renewable energy enthusiast, i wouldn't want to do it at the expense of people working now, at this moment. and there are such tendencies. i want to emphasize the cost-effectiveness of renewable energy. it's an argument often used by their opponents that they're too expensive and cost too much to the taxpayers. this is a fundamental issue. i'm not going to talk about backloading because there's not enough time. i will just say that in this case the european union, the european commission, sets targets which it then withdraws from. it's a lack of consequence, which needs to be said very strongly. we need to change that.
in writing. in discussing the reula report, all announcements of new targets for 2030 that are decisive for renewable energy should be treated with great caution, as they must be preceded by appropriate analyses and a review of the effectiveness of the current directive. any reference to the energy roadmap 2050 should clearly indicate that it is only one of many documents presented during the discussion of the new energy and climate policy and cannot be the basis for further action and for the eu to make unilateral commitments without a global agreement in this area. in the context of the discussion on res, it is also worth considering the potential directions of development of this energy sector. we certainly can't overcome the resistance of the communities by drawing up plans to build, for example, huge and extremely expensive wind farms. therefore, it is worth promoting micro-res, as this often means lower investment risk, relatively short investment time, the possibility of gradual expansion of generation capacity and ease of operation, reduction of network losses and load levels on transmission networks. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's energy policy and its implementation in the member states.
in writing. i would like to start by congratulating mr reul on a very good report. the need to increase the share of renewable energy sources is unquestionable. i am therefore delighted that my region is now home to europe's largest biomass plantation. however, it should be noted that, due to the nature of renewable energy sources, the increase in their share cannot take place without a parallel investment in energy infrastructure. the development of transmission and distribution networks is necessary to ensure the smooth and uninterrupted flow of energy, both between member states and within member states. i also believe that setting far-reaching binding energy targets is risky at the moment and requires further comprehensive analysis.
in writing. the european parliament's proposed resolution opens a discussion on the future policy framework for the development of renewable energy after 2020 and further promoting the integration of renewable energy in the eu's internal energy market. currently, with the increasing share of wind and solar energy, which are highly volatile energy sources, renewable energy sources (res) only supplement the eu's energy balance and at the current level of development of these technologies, it is necessary to maintain reserve capacity based on conventional energy. i believe that in the process of making renewable energy competitive, a strong emphasis should be placed on reducing its costs, rather than artificially raising the price of conventional energy through energy taxes or modification of the ets. such actions by the european commission may lead to a deterioration in energy security in countries currently relying on fossil fuels. the european commission should take into account the diverse potential of member states in the field of res and the development of energy infrastructure. it is therefore necessary to prepare appropriate analyses of both the potential of res in individual countries and the impact of an increase in the share of res in the energy mix on their economies. the 2030 renewable energy targets res share of 40-45% should be set after global agreement, while res support schemes should remain the responsibility of member states.
in writing. the european union is faced with the choice of an energy model that responds to the needs of a european economy operating in a globalised world. renewable energy should be an integral part of this model, and we need to systematically increase its share to meet the real challenges of climate change. however, a policy to promote renewable energy sources cannot be driven solely by a climate perspective, but must take into account a number of other dimensions. first, investments in renewable energy must be subordinated to global investments in european competitiveness. following the example of the us, the union should boldly pursue a deep transformation of its economy towards renewable or low-carbon sources based on the highest innovative technologies. secondly, it is necessary to ensure that the use of renewable energy does not contribute to the increase in energy prices and thus to the deepening of the energy poverty of the population. third, union policy should aim to strike a balance between all types of support to both small and large renewable energy producers, while appealing to the principles of global competitiveness, energy efficiency, promotion of local initiatives and equal opportunities. only through such a comprehensive approach can the eu's energy policy have a chance to deliver added value.
in writing. – the charter of fundamental rights does not create new rights, but gives each person a transparent way of better understanding the rights that already exist in every member state. it is a document that clearly sets out the rights and responsibilities of the european union to its citizens. this is why i regret that the united kingdom, my country and, later, the czech republic chose to ‘opt-out’ of applying the whole text. in recent months, i was heartened to see that the czech republic had reconsidered this negative stance by its former president and that its senate was now against continuing the formal procedure for joining the ‘opt-out’ protocol. i believe any and all actions on this topic by parliament or the council should be suspended. until the czechs re-confirm their desire for this opt-out, it is a waste of all the institutions’ time and money to continue work merely for the sake of formality. at the same time, i believe the uk and poland should also reconsider their application of this protocol. there is no reason why british and polish citizens should be subject to less protection than other eu citizens under the law.
madam president! it has been three years since the tragic plane crash in russia, near smolensk, which killed the polish president and nearly a hundred representatives of the polish political, military and intellectual elite. so far, the wreckage of this plane, as well as the black boxes, are on russian territory and have not been returned to poland. the investigation into this case is proceeding very slowly and there is a strong suspicion that it is being deliberately delayed by the russian side. it seems that international pressure, and in particular that of the european parliament, is necessary to clarify this matter.
'the memorial society is a symbol of the unwavering pursuit of truth, a pursuit that has met with many difficulties but has borne priceless fruit,' said radosław sikorski, poland's minister for foreign affairs. the memorial association is not only a remembrance of the crimes of dictatorships, but also a constant concern for the freedom and dignity of man, of every man, regardless of his political views, worldview or lifestyle. it's the constant struggle for media freedom, it's the care of refugees and political prisoners. here in the european parliament, a group has been set up to propose a memorial for the nobel peace prize. this is important to all of us. i'm asking all of you to support me. we'll come to your house and collect signatures. the memorial should be a model for all of us, for all of us who are aware of our responsibility to learn from history, to democracy, and also for all of us who are aware of our responsibility to human rights.
madam president! this report gives us a clear voice to speak out against the unequal treatment of women and men in the balkan countries. i think a big problem in this area may be some cultural biases and biases. there are still far fewer women than men in the labour force, and those who are already in the labour force are worse off than men because of gender stereotypes. such socially acceptable and contrary to the basic principles of democracy gender inequality must meet our strong protest. we cannot under any circumstances remain silent on the issue of gender-based violence against women. it is therefore good that the european parliament, when addressing the governments of the balkan countries, is precisely formulating its position, drawing attention to those aspects of the unequal treatment of women and men which give rise to our greatest concerns and reservations. i hope that the vote of this parliament will help to improve the situation of women in these countries.
i too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this good report. whenever we talk about women's rights, we have to refer to history. the balkans are already partly eu members, partly candidate countries, with a very complicated and difficult history. therefore, the issue of settling any hardship that has occurred during the wars obviously needs to be ended, especially in the context of the violation of women's rights. but i think today we're able to share good practices, good experiences. i think that especially today we need to promote even more women's participation in public life, the issue of women's participation in economic spheres, in the management of companies. these are all good practices. these issues must be tackled in parallel, especially since we must ultimately take this into account and seek to bring the whole of the balkans into the european union. therefore, the issue of gender policy and women's rights is extremely important, although extremely delicate, and we should be a good example here in preparing all legislative acts, in adapting the law, but also, above all, in monitoring the situation of women's rights in the balkans. i think this report will do that.
in writing. the former yugoslav republics have been pursuing democratic reforms since the end of the civil war. respect for human rights, including women's rights in particular, is an essential element of this. with a view to the accession of some of the balkan countries to the european union, it is necessary that they adopt the acquis communautaire in its entirety. however, it must be borne in mind that it is not enough to adapt national law to the acquis communautaire. first of all, the conditions must be created so that women can exercise their rights effectively. the development and implementation of specific tools will make it possible to achieve faster and more effective outcomes, including the professional activation of women and the equalisation of pay levels. i would also like to congratulate croatia on having succeeded in implementing the european union's recommendations. i think that this country is a good example for the other republics of the former yugoslavia in terms of closer cooperation with the european union. given that social policy issues are extremely sensitive and take a long time to change, i would like to express my full support for the intensification of the campaign for women's rights in the balkan countries. equality of citizens is a great value and one of the overriding objectives of the european union, and i hope that parliament will not remain indifferent to this issue.
mr. chairman, please! in paragraph 31 of today's report on media freedom in the union, the european parliament calls on the european commission to check that member states grant broadcasting licences on the basis of objective, transparent, non-discriminatory and proportionate criteria. i think that first of all the european commission should address the discriminatory practices that restrict the freedom of catholic media in poland. this is about blocking the broadcast of the television program i'm on on the digital multiplex. i have already written to mrs nelly kroes (and to other members) about this (thank you very much, commissioner, for your reply and support!), but a year and a half has passed and there has been no real effect. we're counting on you, commissioner! also last year, a special public hearing was held in the european parliament on discriminatory practices against catholic media in poland. polish citizens, and also citizens of the european union, in defense of the catholic tv trwam, collected 2.5 million signatures. if we are to take the text of the resolution we are adopting seriously, both parliament and the commission should take this matter up in the first place.
mr. chairman, please! the problem of media freedom in the european union is a fundamental one. without media freedom, there is no democracy at all, and no standards that are the essence and foundation of the european union. unfortunately, apart from the european commission's interest and verbal sensitivity to cases of violations of freedom of expression in some countries, we also see a double standard on the part of the commission, which unfortunately raises some sadness and concern. because we should not look at where these media freedoms are restricted, what kind of country it is, by whom it is governed - by the left, the right or by the liberals - but react whenever media freedom is violated. that would be the standard, that foundation, that the european union should associate itself with, if it is really serious about the sensitivity of violating this fundamental principle, this pillar of the european union. unfortunately, the problem of tv trwam not being able to get a place on the multiplex in poland, as mentioned by my predecessor, professor piotrowski, is real. there is no clear reaction from the european commission. we would ask for the same standards, commissioner. it's very necessary, also for the credibility of the commission on freedom of speech.
mr. chairman, please! this report deserves support, not least because it also contains passages on the public media. i'm very glad that mrs. weber took that into account. this is the opinion of the committee on culture, and i had the pleasure of being its author, and for this reason i am inclined to support the report. mrs weber was right when she said that we still need to look after democratic standards. the situation in europe is certainly better than in most countries in the world, but that does not mean that it is good. my colleagues in poland used the example of one of the tv stations, tv trwam. i'd like to inform you that last week the minister of transport demanded 8 million euros in security in a lawsuit with one of the newspapers that reported that he had watches worth more than his salary for several months. such a punishment would bring down this paper. the prime minister of the polish government is being sued by another newspaper for an april fools' joke, which is the joke we make on april 1st. he's also trying to get a court order in the courthouse. these are unacceptable situations, and they're worth looking at. thank you for the opportunity to speak on this matter. i would also ask the commission to examine the situation in our countries, in european countries.
mr. chairman, please! the audiovisual media services directive, adopted three years ago, has contributed to the commission's objectives to a greater or lesser extent. however, as the rapporteur points out, the effectiveness of the directive, particularly in the area of protecting children from inappropriate advertising, is relatively low. given how vulnerable they are to advertising, i agree with the rapporteur that we should do everything we can to regulate this area. the measures taken should be complemented by soft actions, including by promoting the development of codes of conduct in the member states on inappropriate commercial communications in children's programmes, and in particular the adoption of regulations on unhealthy and overweight foods. numerous studies have shown that poor eating habits in children can affect their health later in life, including obesity and diabetes. doctors are warning that obesity is one of the biggest problems among european children, and all available tools should be used to combat it.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? we are evaluating the audiovisual media services directive for the first time. the report i have had the opportunity to prepare is a report which, three years after the entry into force of the directive, analyses the situation of its effects. i would like to begin by saying that the impact assessment of the directive is generally positive. the commission submitted the report after a delay of several months, which was mainly due to the delay in the implementation of the directive by some member states. but today, it should be emphasized, all the member states have implemented the directive, which we consider to be a very big success. this directive is an element of the free movement of media services and an instrument of the internal market which guarantees at the same time the right to protection, the right to information, the right to freedom, and is a very important instrument regulating this sphere in europe. today, we have over 8,000 broadcasters and 2,000 on-demand broadcasters. we generally take a positive view of the issues concerning, among others, advertising. we think that 12 minutes of commercial time in an hour of broadcasting is a very good compromise that should be maintained. the country of origin principle works very well, i.e. if a broadcaster meets the requirements in one member state, it can freely broadcast throughout europe, to all citizens. i think the country of origin principle in this directive has worked particularly well. as a member of the committee on culture, i wanted to stress with particular attention the issues of protecting minors from advertising. these are the issues of advertising's impact on the youngest, and that's why it's so important to have a minimum level of protection for children, especially from the impact of advertising products such as alcohol, tobacco and unhealthy food. the directive addresses the issue of the implementation of pluralism and media freedom accordingly, as was reflected in the previous report we discussed. the directive is very effective in preventing incitement to hatred. we have one specific case in france where one of the television stations was shut down for calling for anti-semitic attitudes. this is one of the consequences of the directive. we strongly support european production on average 63% of production is european production and over 33% is independent production. this is a very important issue on which the directive has forced action. we want to promote european music even more. i want to emphasize the importance of self-regulation. the directive also calls very strongly for the prevention of discrimination on grounds of age, sex and religion. it also raises the issue of adapting television to the needs of people with hearing and visual impairments. especially today, these elements are extremely important to oblige equipment manufacturers to make appropriate adjustments. i would also like to add that it is important that the directive continues to operate. we want to see the effects of this, especially before the new television of the future, hybrid television. consumers increasingly feel that the boundary between linear and non-linear services is disappearing. at the moment, we should not change the directive in question; we should calmly assess its effects and effectively monitor the emergence of modern television, hybrid television. it may be necessary to re-develop the directive in the future, but i think that will only happen after a few years of intensive monitoring. i would like to thank all those who have worked with me on this report and i look forward to the debate.
mr. chairman, please! this report raises a number of very important issues. i am glad that the rapporteur, mr borys, has drawn attention to the problem of increasing the number of programmes and programmes available to the elderly and to those with hearing and speech disabilities. in an era of increasingly accessible television, especially on different types of mobile devices, it is important not to forget about people who, due to age or disability, cannot receive the programmes broadcast by television stations on their own, for example without the assistance of a sign language interpreter. increasing the number of audiovisual products and services adapted to the reception of these people will help to remove many of the barriers they still face in society. i am convinced that it will also reduce the sense of social exclusion that, because of the limited number of programmes adapted to the needs of disabled people, these people may feel every day.
mr. chairman, please! it was a matter of principle, because the situation was such that only the speakers from the ppe could speak. i saw the pain on your face when i spoke last time, especially because i was late, but i promise you, mr. chairman, i will not let you down this time and i will finish before my time. i would like to say that the report by mr borys is a good one and that our group will support it, particularly paragraph 7 on accessibility, paragraphs 14 and 15 on exclusive rights, the provisions relating to the protection of the rights of minors, which was mentioned, article 9 on advertising and paragraph 70 on the protection of personal data. this report deserves our support.
in writing. the security and stability of future pensions, especially now, in times of economic crisis, remains one of the most important social problems. reasonable concern among citizens of member states may be aroused by information from individual governments about the inefficiency of national pension systems. although it is the responsibility of the member states to shape them, we must work at european level to develop specific legal mechanisms for future pensions. the commission should aim to develop common solutions to encourage member states to promote lifelong learning opportunities. it is important to develop the conviction of europeans that, regardless of age, further education increases our chances on the labour market and at the same time increases our financial security in retirement. member states should also aim to ensure a balance in the pay of women and men in the same positions for the same work. this will eliminate discrimination against women, whose benefits are often lower because of the need to care for children and therefore shorter contribution periods, in terms of pension levels. these issues show that solutions to increase the stability of pension systems can also be sought at eu level, without interfering with the powers of the member states. i therefore call on the commission, in view of the gravity of the problem, to use all its powers to this end.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to ask what key the president used or is using to decide that in a given debate members may not speak twice, and in other debates they may do so. we have had several debates and before such an important debate, especially today in the crisis over pension systems, you have forbidden many members who had previously spoken only once to speak again, whereas before you had allowed them to speak three or four times. can you tell me what key you used to make these decisions?
in writing. tax fraud and tax evasion are a major problem not only for the member states but also for the european union itself. the scale of this phenomenon is best illustrated by the fact that public funds are reduced by around eur 1 trillion each year as a result of illegal actions by taxpayers. this is more than the eu spends on health care and four times more than on education. this decline is particularly relevant now that so many member states are experiencing budgetary difficulties. however, i think that this report omits one very important point. politicians are also involved in this vile practice that we are now discussing. people elected to look after the common good, to serve the public, try to hide their income from the tax authorities. this is robbing your fellow citizens! it is disturbing how many of us engage in this practice. and it doesn't matter whether it's in southern or northern europe. while i can understand entrepreneurs who very often spend their savings on investments, i cannot understand the motives of politicians. how can ordinary citizens trust their government and pay their taxes when they are constantly being told that another politician is taking money to tax havens? it shows a complete lack of understanding of the idea of the common good.
in writing. the determinants of energy policy have become very dynamic. the diversification of sources of origin has increased significantly, new raw material areas have emerged and energy efficiency has increased significantly. the transport and storage infrastructure is also slowly improving. recently, we have seen a communitization of activities, not just at european level. this creates new conditions for defining and reviewing the tasks and objectives for 2020 and beyond for 2030. we need to take into account the ongoing economic crisis and re-examine the assumptions of climate policy and the share of renewable energy. a major problem for the eu, which makes it difficult to compete on the global market, is that energy prices are very high compared to other countries in the world. today, energy prices in europe are twice as high as in the united states, and gas prices are four times as high. it should be borne in mind that high energy prices mainly affect the poorest households. we have what is called energy poverty. in poorer member states, some households spend as much as 22% of their budgets on energy. europe cannot therefore close the door on the opportunities offered by the non-conventional energy sources available on the continent. the main issue here is, of course, shale gas extraction, and in the future, shale oil.
in writing. it should be stressed that the debate on climate policy is not really about the environment, but about the competitiveness of economies. without the extensive system of high tariffs for the polish economy, which are de facto introduced as part of the ambitious eu climate plans, electricity production in poland would be several times cheaper than energy production through technologies imposed on us by the european union (e.g. wind turbines or nuclear energy). if the eu succeeds in pushing through a restrictive climate policy, we will have to buy almost all of these technologies in the coming years for hundreds of billions of zlotys from international companies that do not pay taxes in poland. currently, 90% of poland's energy is generated by coal combustion in technologies that protect against harmful dust and chemicals. it is the most cost-effective technology which additionally supports the polish coal mining sector. the adoption of the conclusions effectively represents the political agreement of the member states to the commission's initiative of the following new normative acts: structural amendment of the ets directive to increase the price of carbon dioxide emission allowances by withdrawing 2 billion allowances from the market new emission reduction targets. it is no secret that the advanced drafts of these legislative acts are only waiting for the 'green light' from the council to be put to the european parliament. i am firmly against such solutions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because it effectively underlined the inconsistencies between the law of the union and the present bilateral air service agreements, and it explained the benefits that will result. i believe that this is a right step towards the elimination of the errors that are associated with the eu laws. also, i trust that this will make air transportation more efficient within the eu. the eu carriers will be able to benefit from their right of establishment and will not encounter the problems that were created by the old delegatory clause.
in writing. − traditionally, international aviation relations between member states and third countries have been governed by bilateral air service agreements. they include a 'designation clause' which allows third countries to refuse, withdraw or suspend the authorisation or the authorisation granted to an air carrier. the 2002 ecj ruling found that the clause in article 49 tfeu was incompatible. the solution is horizontal agreements to replace the designation clause, so that eu aircraft can benefit from the right of registration and have access to connections between the eu and third countries on a non-discriminatory basis. in accordance with rule 81 of its rules of procedure, parliament shall give its consent to the conclusion of international agreements by means of a single vote. no amendments are reported. the rapporteur recommends that the committee on transport and tourism approve the conclusion of the contract.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the european aviation safety agency is the key institution for the efficient management of air traffic in europe. it therefore acts as a sort of network manager for the air connections on the continent. in the context of an increasingly dynamic aviation market, appropriate oversight and regulation is desirable and in the interest of citizens. the implementation of the single airspace area should make air transport considerably easier, especially in the community countries. i therefore welcome the efforts to strengthen cooperation between the union and eurocontrol, which will ensure that this objective is achieved. this agreement shall specify the principles and mechanisms of such cooperation, while strengthening eurocontrol's role in the union's system of enforcement agendas, and focusing on safety and environmental issues.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's consent to the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the european organisation for the safety of air navigation (eurocontrol) establishing a general framework for enhanced cooperation. eurocontrol is the eu's technical and operational body for the development and implementation of the single european sky and plays a key role in air traffic management in europe. i hope that the conclusion of the enhanced cooperation agreement will contribute to the development of a single european airspace and will also allow for more effective and coherent cooperation with the european aviation safety agency (easa), which will in turn contribute to the improvement of air traffic management in europe.
in writing. − the enhanced cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol will effectively contribute to the implementation of the single european sky. this recommendation will decrease the separation and strengthen the communication between the two entities. i believe that this change will make air-traffic management within the eu more effective. moreover, this recommendation effectively shows the terms and conditions of the cooperation between the two entities. this ensures the concreteness of this new collaboration. thus, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation since i welcome the further implementation of the single european sky. giving consent to the conclusion of the agreement will make sure that all airspace users can use safe and efficient airspace. furthermore it will improve the air-traffic management system not only in poland, but also in the eu and beyond.
in writing. − the council voted in favour of the signing of the agreement establishing a general framework for closer cooperation between the european union and the european aviation safety organisation. the agreement confirms the regulatory role of the european union, while eurocontrol is to be responsible for the operational and technical tasks related to the implementation of the single european sky (ses). the european union points out that the best solution would be to introduce a global aviation emissions trading system based on the principle of non-discrimination. the commission has called on eu member states to work together to tackle issues such as the charging of trans-siberian air fares. the commission has entrusted eurocontrol with the function of verifying the effectiveness of the functioning of the single european sky (in 2010) and with the function of network manager in the implementation of network functions in the framework of air traffic management (in 2011). it was proposed to set up a joint committee responsible for the management and operation of the contract. the joint committee would be empowered to adopt and amend annexes falling within the scope of the agreement.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported the report by mr kohlíčka. since the 1990s, we have seen a marked increase in air traffic over europe. over the past two decades, it has doubled there are some 26 000 passenger flights over the community every day. experts estimate that by 2030, that number will double again. unfortunately, the development of modern air traffic management systems does not directly translate into its efficiency. the reason is clear: fragmentation of airspace over the european union. the commission has also received comments from interested parties. the single european sky project tripling airspace capacity, improving safety by a factor of ten, reducing the environmental impact of aviation by 10% and reducing air traffic management costs by 50%. i believe that the agreement adopted today will strengthen cooperation between the eu and eurocontrol to enable eurocontrol to support the eu in implementing the long-delayed single european sky project.
in writing. − i support the proposal for a regulation on the deposit of historical archival material of the eu institutions at the european university institute in florence (eui). the proposal aims to give the european parliament its consent to the council of the eu amending the existing regulation. the main changes include clarifying the legal and financial rules for cooperation between the eu and the eui, increasing the role of the eui in managing the archival material of the eu institutions, protecting personal data contained in archives, and making archives available in electronic form where possible. these materials are a very important source of information on the european integration process, and it is therefore very important to ensure their adequate archiving, to guarantee their universal access and to support scientific research on the european integration process.
in writing. − the historical archives of the eu institutions are an important source of information on the history and heritage of the european union. the commission is identifying measures that will ensure universal access to archives and protection of information on the eu institutions, and support research into the history of european integration. the commission mentions, inter alia, the institution's obligation to deposit historical archival material with the eiu, and points to the right of the depositing institution to obtain information on the management of its archival material and to carry out inspections. the commission shall, on behalf of the depositing institutions, undertake to conclude a framework partnership agreement with the eiu to establish detailed rules governing the respective competences and tasks of the union institutions and the eiu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr carlo casini on the timing of the next elections to the european parliament. this document expressed support for the draft decision of the eu council on the change of the date for the election of members of the european parliament. the original proposed date for the elections coincides with the so-called long weekend in many eu countries, which could have a negative impact on voter turnout. in view of this, i consider it appropriate to postpone the elections to 22-25 may 2014. i believe that this will be beneficial and will contribute to the active participation of eu citizens in the elections to the european parliament.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i fully support the decision to move the elections to the period from 22 to 25 may 2014. the whitsun bank holiday weekend that is celebrated by many of the member states clearly interferes with the election dates that would have ordinarily been held. the holiday pertains to many people and, in my opinion, takes away a big number of potential voters. i believe that this will enhance voter turnout for the 2014 elections.
in writing. - the change of the date of the european parliament elections provides an opportunity to increase voter turnout. parliament itself has been pushing for this change for years.
in writing. − the council requested an opinion on the draft decision amending the date of the elections. this would cover the period from thursday 5 june to sunday 8 june 2014, by analogy with the date on which the first direct elections were held (from thursday 9 june to sunday 12 june 1979). as the election deadline that would apply in most member states would correspond to the long green christmas weekend, the council considered that it would be better to expedite the elections and proposed to set them for 22-25 may (thursday sunday) 2014. in order to give member states sufficient time to take the necessary measures to organise those elections, a decision on the new date should be taken as soon as possible. this justifies the application of the simplified procedure provided for in rule 46 (1). the draft council decision is rejected.
in writing. - the application of gabriele albertini of 25 april 2006 for immunity in connection with the criminal proceedings against him before the milan court was rejected. since he took up his seat as a senator in the italian senate on 15 march 2013, article 9 of the protocol no longer applies to him, since the position of senator in the italian senate cannot be combined with the function of member of the european parliament in accordance with article 7 (2) of the 1976 act on direct elections.
in writing. − at the meeting of 6 february 2013, the chairman submitted a request for the waiver of the immunity of mr spyros danellis. he was charged with inciting a third party to commit an offence and with knowingly making false statements about that third party which could damage that third party's reputation and good name. the alleged false statements and the charges relate to the activities of mr danellis in his previous capacity as mayor of chersonisos and have no connection with his mandate as member of the european parliament. mr danellis has had the opportunity to comment on this matter and there is no reason to suspect that this is a case of fumus persecutionis. on the basis of the above circumstances and after examining the arguments for and against the waiver of the member's immunity, the rapporteur has decided to waive the immunity.
in writing. − merger and acquisition operations often require complex financial support. the commission's action plan on eu company law is expected to be adopted by the ep. the ep stresses that the mandatory takeover bid provision is the main provision governing the protection of minority shareholders and allows for derogations from this provision to protect the interests of shareholders' control. the ep also stressed that the mandatory takeover bid provision allows minority shareholders to receive a premium paid for the controlling stake in the event of a change of control. the directive abolishes the obligation to submit a mandatory takeover bid if, after an initial voluntary offer, the threshold of control is reached in such a way that the bidder can then increase its holding in the company being acquired by simply acquiring shares. the rapporteur believes that information flows should be ensured for workers and that all workers should have access to transitional support, regardless of their status. it is considered important to maintain the rights, obligations and working conditions set out in the current employment contracts and to prohibit dismissals in connection with the activities carried out during the acquisition. the rapporteur raised the issue of establishing an effective system of penalties and controls to protect against violations of workers' rights.
mr. chairman, please! we must remember that the economic slowdown has weakened not only entire countries but also the potential of individual regions, even those that have been prosperous. i fully agree with the need to develop strategies to revive them. we are in the process of planning the eu budget for the next few years. it is therefore worth considering a chapter on the funds which will be used to support regional economies and will also allow the balance of capital between weaker regions and stronger ones. it is fully in line with the recommendations to create favourable conditions for the development of new enterprises. this will generate much higher profits than the current preference for large national centres. it will also be a driver of innovation in the economy and a catalyst for the often frustrated young people who are looking for their own way into business. this is the best way to stimulate job growth. in poland too, there are many regions with very poor industrial infrastructure. the development of future industries and the location of new investments in these regions would be a desirable direction for their development.
mr. chairman, please! the problem is undoubtedly very serious. we have a number of industrial centres in europe which, for various reasons, have been in a dramatic crisis. many redundancies are taking place or are already foreseen. this can lead to serious social problems. in this situation, the european union should prepare a strategy to support especially such industrial centres that have a development perspective. in poland, we see these problems, for example, in the upper silesian industrial centre, where cities such as katowice, chorzów and bytom need support to find new ways of industrialisation and modern technologies that will guarantee new jobs. i hope that this kind of coherent strategy will emerge, because the european union is in dire need of it.
in writing. - i support the report by mr jens geier on regional strategies for industrial centres in the european union. industry has always been one of the most important sectors of the economy, contributing to job creation and economic growth. in recent years, we have seen the collapse of many traditional industries, such as mining, metallurgy, textiles and machinery. as a result, many eu regions are facing challenges linked to structural transformation processes. the measures available under cohesion policy could be very helpful in countering the negative effects of post-industrial areas. it is very important that these funds support actions to stimulate industrial policy in formerly industrialised areas, inter alia by improving the conditions for new investments, supporting the modernisation of the industrial sector and the transfer of new technologies, and promoting new industries of the future. the development of regional strategies for former industrial areas is also very important. i believe that this will help to overcome the difficulties faced by the industrial sector in many regions of the eu.
in writing. − the industrial sector in the eu has been declining in the last 50 years and requires some major structural transformation. the old industrialised regions are the ones that are in most need and are the ones that have to receive the most focus because of the regional disparity that has occurred due to the enlargement of the eu. today’s civilisation focuses more on the new industry that consists of technology and contemporary innovations rather than ones that include coal, machinery, etc. the restoration of old industry is very costly. technology and any type of advancements do require funding, and european public funding has to play a large role in it. i believe that the cohesion policy brings essential restructuring in the industrial areas in the european union. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on regional strategies for industrial areas in the european union, as it contains ideas on how cohesion policy can best support the regeneration and reorganisation of these areas and contribute to the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. the key recommendations of the report include the development of effective policies in areas such as cohesion policy, economic governance and competitiveness, innovation, research, the digital agenda, sustainable development, the creative and cultural industries, new skills and jobs. developing smart specialisation strategies is also important, and the success of regions depends on sustainable development strategies that are tailored to their needs. the development of entrepreneurship among young people should also be further promoted.
in writing. − eu cohesion policy funding should complement national funding and contribute to the faster implementation of eu legislation on renewable energy and energy efficiency. it is important to promote rational, long-term and cost-efficient strategies for energy and resources and a green economy. local and regional authorities in industrial centres should seek to exploit the synergies between national and union public funding and private investment in energy and infrastructure projects to support innovation, research and development. the need for the eu to mobilise all the policies and instruments available at european level to support job creation was highlighted. it was recognised that planned strategies should aim to protect and respect the environment and physical space, while at the same time being more efficient and environmentally sustainable.
certainly, actions to protect the environment in connection with the extraction and exploitation of natural resources such as gas and oil are important. this is demonstrated by the various cases of major disasters which have had a very negative impact on the quality of the environment and, moreover, have subsequently entailed serious costs associated with restoring the environment to its previous state. but there is no doubt that not only the extraction but also the transport of these raw materials can pose such a threat to ecosystems. the agreement to build the nordstream pipeline under the baltic sea from russia to europe, mainly to germany, is an example of a certain inconsistency between the european parliament and the european union in general. this pipeline carries a real threat. the european parliament passed a resolution in the previous term of office that was critical of the construction of this pipeline for environmental reasons, and then it was approved as if the resolution had never been passed. so why all the fuss when the interests will prevail anyway and the case will be carried out against the objections of the environmentalists and the position of the european parliament?
in writing. - i hope that the efforts we are making with this report will help us avoid tragedies like the one that occurred in the gulf of mexico in 2010. i also support the idea of preventing the european maritime safety agency from going beyond its assigned competences and tasks. the agreement on the eu's role in the arctic is also a significant success in this context. i therefore support the report.
in writing. − the plan for the safety of offshore oil and gas activities has the right approach toward the attempt to prevent the repetition of the gulf of mexico tragedy in 2010. i believe that the change in the proposed legislation from a regulation to a directive was appropriate. it saves a significant amount of time and cost and gives the possibility of creating a strong legal framework within the directive. additionally, i agree with the proposed transparency of the eu authorities group. this can be used as a forum for the member states to exchange information on experiences with their accident prevention. i believe that this type of information sharing will improve the safety precautions within many of the regimes. it will reduce the need for any type of safety trial and error testing. the proposed directive has effectively thought out the most effective ways to increase the safety of offshore oil and gas activities. therefore, i vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − the deepwater horizon explosion has prompted a review of eu policies. the european commission has launched a safety assessment of offshore oil and gas activities in european waters. further action was identified as necessary to ensure the dissemination in the union of proven solutions establishing a clear and modern framework at union level. the european commission proposal focuses on measures to prevent general disparities and fragmentation of practices and on member states' legislation on the extraction of oil and natural gas from offshore deposits. this was sufficient reason for the rapporteur to accept the commission's proposal. it should more explicitly require operators to have the financial guarantees necessary to cover the costs of clean-up and compensation in the event of a major accident.
mr. chairman, please! there is no doubt that energy consumption needs to be gradually reduced and that energy production, transmission and use needs to be made more efficient. renewables can certainly contribute to increasing europe's energy independence, improving climate conditions and also delivering a number of savings. however, we should bear in mind the different economic levels of the member states. some have been investing in renewable energy for a long time, while others may be doing more harm than good at this point. i therefore do not fully share the suggestion of imposing specific targets in this area. the economic costs of such projects have not yet been rigorously estimated. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to grant a loan to the beneficiary of the aid, in the form of a loan to the beneficiary of the aid, for a maximum amount of eur 100000 per year. but it is worth taking a closer look at some of the indigenous energy sources, such as geothermal and shale gas. the implementation of appropriate acquisition projects may generate high interest rates in the future.
i voted against this report. however, in appreciating the value of energy from different sources, including renewable energy, many of those working on the report overlook the fact that renewable energy is twice as expensive as coal-fired energy. it so happens that the whole world is basing its production on the cheapest energy and therefore competing with european industry. we cannot turn a blind eye to these obvious facts. if this energy costs much more, we should be able to allow countries to use it more flexibly, rather than rigidly, with very serious economic and social consequences. often it is the 3 million new jobs that will be created by green energy, but to this we must add the other side namely 6 and perhaps 10 million jobs that europe will lose in the years ahead precisely because of this irrational, unwise policy that turns a blind eye to the much higher prices of renewable energy than traditional energy.
in writing. − renewable energy is one of the european union's main areas of interest, as it is of strategic importance for the development of the community as a whole and of individual countries. there is no doubt that the supply of stable energy at competitive prices is crucial for the rapid development of the industry. moreover, the development of biofuel, wind and biogas technologies will have a significant impact on the development of rural areas, which in many community countries cover a significant part of the territory. to prevent the negative effects of regulation on renewable energy in rural areas, the european union should define a clear and predictable framework that does not negatively impact food production and does not increase the cost of energy. the situation of the internal energy market in the european union must change if the economies of the community countries are to remain competitive. it is therefore necessary to introduce both a new perspective on renewable energy and projects currently under discussion such as iluc.
in writing. − regulation of renewable energy in the european energy market is undoubtedly important, but it also requires a lot of thought. the question is not whether we should use renewable energy at all, but how quickly we can develop this form of energy, especially in times of crisis and with no clear prospects for getting out of it. i voted against the first amendment, specifically against the provision that would suggest renewable energy at 40 to 45 percent by 2030. this objective seems unrealistic, especially in the polish economy. you can try to achieve that goal, but you can't be embarrassed by the record. after rejecting this amendment, i voted in favour of the whole report.
in writing. - renewable energy has been and continues to be a source of great hope, but also of great controversy. its production must be dictated by economic calculation, like any other activity. this does not mean that the production of such energy should not be financially supported. however, such subsidies must be deliberate and coordinated so as not to hamper the competitiveness of the economy. the european commission estimates that investments in renewable energy can create an additional 3 million jobs. but we have to ask ourselves, will more people lose their jobs as a result of the decline in competitiveness of the low-carbon economy? energy production is a long-term investment, so we must set realistic targets, and i repeat: realistic targets! in addition, stable conditions for development over many years are needed. the key will be the planned completion of the internal energy market by 2014. this would allow for more efficient deliveries and lead to lower prices. the production potential of energy, in particular renewable energy, should take into account the local conditions of each country. finally, i would like to say that in the context of renewable energy policy, it sounds strange to announce the decommissioning of 5-7% of agricultural land as part of the cap reform between 2014 and 2020, with the simultaneous intention of reducing the production of first generation biofuels.
in writing. - i abstained in the final vote because of the new 2030 targets. the socialists demanded that 45% of the energy come from renewable energy sources (res), but this provision was rejected.
in writing. − i believe that renewable energy contributes to solving the climate change problem, increases europe's energy independence and brings additional environmental benefits reduces air pollution, waste generation and water consumption, and reduces the risks associated with other forms of energy production. in addition, the creation of an internal market for gas and electricity would be a cost-effective way of balancing the diversified production of electricity.
in writing. - thank you very much for your report. in the context of the accession of the balkan countries to the community, we are raising the important question of the active participation of women in the labour market and their ability to combine family and professional life. it is, of course, unacceptable that anyone should be discriminated against in this respect on the basis of sex. we cannot remain silent when we know about the practices of domestic violence against women. we should promote and support women's participation in public life in the countries aspiring to join the eu. but the issue of women's rights is extremely sensitive. again, i cannot agree with the statement that to improve the situation of women, they must be given access to sexual and reproductive rights services, which in institutional parlance means first and foremost access to abortion.
in writing. - women in the balkans have suffered a lot. the war in the former yugoslavia was a time of devastation and tragedy less than 20 years ago. many women were raped, beaten, many lost fathers, husbands, children, entire families. another factor contributing to their poor treatment is the tradition that strongly favors the patriarchal system. it is therefore our task to ensure that the authorities in these countries provide women with the appropriate rights and the mechanisms to enforce them. it is also important to build a support system to increase the number of institutions to which women can turn for support. the european parliament is now in a unique position to make this happen, as the balkan countries seek eu membership. it is therefore necessary to put pressure on the applicant countries to implement and comply with the standards in force in the union.
in writing. - referring to the report of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i believe that attention is rightly drawn to the problem of the differentiated status of women in the western balkan countries that wish to join the european union. there is a wide variation in the implementation of women's rights and gender equality legislation between these countries. as the balkan countries are at different stages of the accession process, it is necessary to adapt the requirements to the specific countries in order to better integrate them into national legal systems. particular attention should be paid to the practical application of the provisions on women's empowerment and gender equality. we cannot be indifferent to the plight of women in countries that should be examples of democracy, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice and gender equality. moreover, gender equality is a core value of the eu, enshrined in the treaty. in view of the above, i support the position of the committee on women's rights and gender equality.
in writing. - i supported the report on women's rights in the balkan countries applying for eu membership. the report provides general guidance and detailed country-specific recommendations. the main problems are: 1. effective implementation of the gender equality legislation. in the western balkan countries, legislation in this area, although adopted, is not effectively applied. for example, the constitution of albania prohibits discrimination on grounds of sex, but in practice women are discriminated against, including as a result of the return to the traditional legal code of the kanun, which reinforces the division of gender roles and status in society. there are many similar examples, and the overriding requirement for the balkan countries should be to effectively comply with the eu acquis on gender equality. this also includes the need to promote gender equality and women's rights and to work against gender stereotypes. 2.equal rights and equal access to the labour market as a necessary condition for ensuring women's economic independence. in the balkan countries, unemployment is more common among women. the primary role of women is to care for the children and to care for the home. they are much more likely to live in poverty because of reduced family benefits and other benefits. governments should ensure that gender equality legislation is implemented and respected, guaranteeing equal opportunities for both women and men in accessing the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on women’s rights in the balkan accession countries (2012/2255(ini)). in doing so i would hope to uphold the quality of life for eu citizens and the requirements for new member states to this union. the eu was founded on the foundation of human rights and equality for all. this cannot be weakened, as to do so would undermine all the efforts that have been made thus far. as we all know there are particular criteria that must be reached prior to joining the eu and i feel strongly that those requirements on human rights are of the utmost importance. while economic criteria are, in this difficult time, at the forefront of everyone’s concerns, we must not lose sight of our obligations to civil society and the social fabric of our union. therefore, holding the line on human rights and equality should not ever meet with a lowering of standards and should in fact remain a firm criterion for all aspiring members.
in writing. − the western balkan countries applying for eu membership have adopted many of the provisions required for the accession process, but these are often not effectively applied. there are no mechanisms to implement women's rights and gender equality legislation. it must be possible for citizens to report cases of discrimination or violation of rights to the designated authorities and these reports should be dealt with properly and in a timely manner.
mr. chairman, please! in recent months, in my country, poland, there have been some disturbing developments in the way the media, which is uncomfortable with the ruling camp, has been hampered. an example is the so far unexplained involvement of government officials in the takeover of the publisher of one of the conservative weeklies, and consequently the complete reshaping of the political profile of the newspaper. another newspaper was forced by a court, but without a verdict, to abandon its current name based on the dubious nature of the allegations. it's impossible to get a spot on the digital multiplex of the national catholic television. in the light of these facts, the rapporteur's arguments seem to be extremely valid, whereas the legal basis proposed is, in my view, inappropriate. the imposition of new obligations on states based on the charter of fundamental rights is unacceptable. in fulfilling its role as a guarantor of the unfettered activities of the media, the union should apply the rules of the european convention on human rights and the treaty principles. as a supporter of pluralism and broad media competitiveness, i call on the polish government not to violate the democratic standards of a community member state.
mr. chairman, please! i supported this report because setting standards to protect media freedom is crucial for the future of the european union. it is a guarantee of the right to free and unfettered expression. the absence of such a law is a sign of a decline in values and a sign of a lack of freedom of speech. such an example is currently poland, where the systematic principle of restricting the freedom of speech of the catholic trwam television was applied, which as a result of political decisions did not receive a license to broadcast in digital technology. such practices are most reprehensible and constitute a non-transparent, discriminatory and disproportionate violation of the right to freedom of expression.
in writing. - the problem of media freedom is still a topical one in the european union. the demands made in mrs weber's report are valid. it is worth noting that the situation of some media outlets in poland is also becoming more and more difficult. tv trwam, the polish catholic television, has not been given a place on the multiplex and is discriminated against. in paragraph 31 of today's report, parliament calls on the european commission to monitor whether broadcasting licences are granted by member states on the basis of objective, transparent, non-discriminatory and proportionate criteria. in a country without a free media, there is no possibility of democracy developing. that is why i think the report is worth supporting.
in writing. − the eu charter setting standards for media freedom in the eu is a legal act of great importance for political life, social control and freedom of expression and access to information. i voted for this report, along with over 500 other members, because it strengthens media pluralism, and also makes recommendations and sets out rules for institutional cooperation and contains specific measures and indicates the sources of legislative initiatives.
in writing. - i did not vote on the report by ms renate weber, because it contained both positive and - in my view - negative elements. i think it is worthwhile to emphasise that free and independent media and the free exchange of information play a key role in democratic transitions in non-democratic regimes, and to highlight the role of public media. they must fulfil their specific missions, including a social, educational, cultural and democratic role. it is also important to call on all member states where defamation is a criminal offence to decriminalise it as soon as possible. i think the arguments relating to the granting of broadcasting licences are valid, but the reference to the charter of fundamental rights is problematic. some member states have not implemented its provisions and it would be wrong to force them to do so by means of a media report. it would be more appropriate to rely on the european convention on human rights and the eu treaty rules as a legal basis. i support the revision of the audiovisual media services directive to ensure the independence and impartiality of european audiovisual services. however, i believe that the review should focus on ensuring the consistent implementation of the existing directive rather than on granting substantial new powers in this area, which would focus too much on the fulfilment of fundamental rights tasks rather than on the effective functioning of the media sector in the eu.
in writing. − the demands made in ms weber's report on media freedom are relevant and extremely timely, especially in the light of the increasingly difficult situation of some media in poland (e.g. tv trwam). i therefore support the rapporteur's proposals, but i think that the choice of the legal basis on which media freedom in the eu should be built is wrong. it would be more appropriate to rely on the european convention on human rights and the eu treaty rules. the eu charter of fundamental rights should not create new legal obligations for member states.
in writing. − the debate on the eu charter of fundamental rights on media freedom underlined that free and independent online and offline media are one of the foundations of democracy and the rule of law. the principle of net neutrality has been confirmed. issues related to the prohibition of censorship and the protection of sources and informants, issues related to pressure exerted by political actors and market forces were raised. the role of unrestricted access to information and communication, uncensored access to the internet and the fight against the so-called digital divide was emphasised. the commission was invited to closely monitor media freedom and pluralism in the eu candidate countries and to pay due attention to the role of free media in supporting democracy in the world; the importance of the european endowment for democracy was underlined.
in writing. − in today's report on media freedom in the union, in paragraph 31, the european parliament calls on the european commission to check that member states grant broadcasting licences on the basis of objective, transparent, non-discriminatory and proportionate criteria. i have spoken in this house many times about the abuse of such processes, and i have given tv trwam in poland as a particular example. this is about blocking the broadcast of the television program i'm on on the digital multiplex. i have already written to mrs nelly kroes on this subject, together with other members, but a year and a half later, there is no real effect. we're counting on you to look into this! also last year, a special public hearing was held in the european parliament on discriminatory practices against catholic media in poland. it was organised jointly by meps from the various political groups. if we are to take the text of the resolution we are adopting seriously, both parliament and the commission should take this matter up in the first place.
thank you very much. thank you. it is worth noting that demographic trends in europe, including poland, are both encouraging and worrying. life expectancy is increasing at an accelerating rate for both men and women, and we should be happy about that. however, fewer people are working, which means that there are too few funds for pensions. i want to emphasize that in this situation, the state should take responsibility for the security of pensions. for most elderly people, state pensions are their main source of income. these people need to be sure they're getting their pensions. moreover, assistance to low-income people should be more effective.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the ageing of european societies means that strategic measures must be taken to provide financial security for retired workers, pensioners and students alike. it is important to build on the forecasts and develop solutions now to prevent these negative social trends from escalating. however, not all proposals are conducive to achieving these objectives. the principle of equal retirement ages for men and women is certainly not serving this purpose. in the face of dramatically low birth rates in many member states, it will be more urgent and effective to support pro-family policies, in particular by facilitating the encouragement of young people to take up the challenge of raising children. increasing the birth rate is a natural way to redress the imbalance between the proportion of people in work and those on benefits. the systematic expansion of the labour market to mobilise the ever-growing number of young people who are unemployed and often without any means of subsistence should be an equally important priority.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the plan for adequate, secure and stable pensions by ms ria oomen-ruijten. the ageing of the population and the current economic crisis pose a number of challenges in ensuring the stability of pension systems and guaranteeing social security for eu citizens. in this context, member states should be encouraged to undertake such pension reform measures as would ensure stability and social security. it should also be borne in mind that the increasing mobility of europeans requires the creation of pension systems that guarantee that pension rights acquired in the member state of origin or in another member state are not lost. it is also crucial to agree on minimum standards for the acquisition and retention of pension rights and to encourage the generation of supplementary private pension savings. in addition, i believe it is appropriate to put in place a process of coordination at eu level to help member states to develop sustainable and secure pension systems.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of the resolution on adequate, secure and stable pensions because the financial and economic crisis, the second wave of which we are currently experiencing, has shown very clearly the fragility of the existing pension systems. it turned out that none of the models guaranteed stable and adequate pensions. moreover, they all contribute to the deterioration of the financial situation of the state. in this debate, pension schemes are often seen as a burden on public finances, but they are also seen as a tool to combat the poverty of older people and thus stimulate the economy. furthermore, as the examples of spain and portugal show, pension benefits can also be used to support the whole family when they are the only stable and certain income of one of its members. in view of all these problems, i fully agree with the rapporteur that we must build a system that is most resilient to economic shocks. it seems a good idea to pursue a multi-tiered pension system that would skillfully combine all models. nevertheless, it seems to me that the main challenge facing both the union and the member states today is youth unemployment. no pension system will function effectively if a large proportion of the population is outside the labour market or does not contribute to it.
in writing. − in an era of adverse demographic change in the eu and economic crisis, pension reforms are an essential element in improving the financial situation of citizens. the resolution we adopted calls for the income of older people to be diversified so that public schemes (alongside employee and private forms) are the most important sources of funding. another step to improve the situation is to increase the retirement age and encourage employers to hire older people. in order to increase coordination of systems at european level, we also called for the possibility of transferring pension rights between member states, which could prove extremely useful in the event of a change of residence. pensions are very often the only means of support for older people, leading to a life on the poverty line. this is particularly important for people living in rural areas where access to additional income is limited. guaranteed pension benefits are therefore necessary and should be introduced and reformed with due diligence.
in writing. − the report by ms oomen-ruijten on safe and adequate pensions contains several particularly important elements, namely the reference to the situation of national budgets, changes in the life expectancy of citizens, the ratio of the number of pensioners to the number of persons in employment, the maintenance of several pillars of the pension fund, the partnership of trade unions and ngos. there is no doubt about it: governments are responsible for guaranteeing pensions. i supported the report because it deserves to be supported. the only downside is that the economic crisis, high unemployment, especially among young people, can leave countries without the means to fund their pensions.
in writing. on an important issue such as pensions, it is important to bear in mind all the economic and demographic data which relate to it. the report by my colleague, mrs ria oomen-ruijten, has done that. this report takes into account the increase in life expectancy in the eu and its necessary alignment with the retirement age, the restriction of early retirement schemes to keep older people in employment and the standardisation of the working careers of men and women to eventually eliminate the glaring difference between men's and women's pensions. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this own-initiative report.
in writing. − the issue of pensions is a matter of great public concern in most eu countries. they are affected by the same problems - albeit to varying degrees - the demographic crisis, the increasing instability of employment (including the 'junk' contracts) and unemployment. all these factors will translate into the amount of pensions paid. according to a 2012 report by the european commission, in 2060 the total pension in poland is to be 22% of the last salary. under the old system, the ratio was 47% in 2010 and was even higher, above 60%, before that. many countries are raising the retirement age, which is causing a huge social uproar. it is understandable if we compare the increase in the retirement age with the state's inaction in the face of the proliferation of junk contracts that mostly devastate the pension system. the compulsory capital system is causing great excitement in many countries, including poland. the authors of the report highlight important issues such as equal pension benefits for women and men, the right to information on future retirement and the pension future of people working in different member states. all these factors have led me to support this report. regardless of the above, it should be borne in mind that the state is the ultimate guarantor of pensions.
in writing. − the green paper on european pension systems published by the european commission aims to launch a debate on the main challenges in this area and how the eu can support member states. the aim of the support will be to ensure adequate and stable pensions. a document analysing the possibility of modernising pension policies in eu countries addresses considerations on the gradual raising of the retirement age and the increase in pension contributions. i believe that the legal framework should be designed to encourage eu countries to carry out reforms that take account of demographic changes in europe (increasing life expectancy) and the need to link these issues to the moment of retirement.
in writing. - i welcome the outcome of today's vote. the resolution adopted today sends a clear signal to member states not to delay pension reforms. the ageing of the population is a pan-european phenomenon. in addition, the negative effects of the demographic crisis are exacerbated by the economic crisis. the european parliament today confirmed that public first pillar pension schemes should remain the main source of income for pensioners, but that governments have a responsibility to seek and promote alternative instruments that can provide funding for the provision of benefits to older people. that is a very clear and unambiguous position of parliament.
mr. chairman, please! the regulation conferring specific supervisory powers on the european central bank provides for a completely new quality of banking supervision. for the first time in history, the supervision of europe's major banks will be transferred to a single international institution. this operation aims to restore market confidence, rebuild the crossborder credit market and harmonise and reduce the cost of refinancing for euro area peripheral banks. the new rules aim to create an effective and coherent banking supervision system that is more pragmatic, efficient and independent of local conditions than national regulators. the new supervision is designed to detect and respond to irregularities in national banking sectors before they become a threat to the stability of the euro area as a whole. in my speech, i would like to draw attention to the non-euro area countries. due to the legal basis adopted by the european commission for the creation of the single supervisory mechanism, it was not possible to grant non-euro area countries full rights under the new system. nevertheless, parliament and the council have reached a good compromise, the provisions of which bear the asymmetric relationship between the obligations and rights of the states with a temporary derogation. recognising the legal and systemic constraints, such as the lack of access to the ecb's liquidity operations, we have developed a formula that is a fair offer for non-euro area countries. non-euro area countries have an influence on the wording of the final decisions of the supervisory board and may terminate or suspend their membership in justified circumstances. as a non-euro-area mep, i would like to stress that these regulations strengthen the euro area, but we do not forget our great achievement, the single financial market. we have been able to create an instrument which deepens economic and monetary union, but which does not discriminate against countries which are only on the way to a common currency. i do not agree with the increasingly loud opinions that we should be content with joint supervision and postpone the next elements of the banking union. it is doubtful that the common supervisory mechanism as proposed would on its own increase confidence in the financial market without addressing the problems that have de facto contributed to the current situation.
i agree with czech prime minister petr nečas that a two-speed europe is already a reality. it exists, and the banking union will only deepen this europe of different speeds, increase the lack of confidence in the institutions of the european union among the citizens and among the european taxpayers. i want to talk about the fears of ordinary people, because they are the ones who elect us to the european parliament. i want to talk about the fear of those who say that the bailout of banks in the crisis - as before - will be from the pockets of ordinary beggars, those who save every day. the cost of a banking union will be enormous, greater than the cost of a fiscal compact. and there will be a huge risk to bank deposits, not just in my country, but in other countries as well, because there's no telling how much money we're going to put into this common european union pot. the german banks' attitude shows that this is a high risk. germany does not want the municipal banks and the länder banks to be subject to this system. this is the best example of how pragmatic germans are afraid of this initiative.
mr president, i would like to raise two points. my first point is on the need to look at the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism together. they are two sides of the same coin. to ensure an effective functioning of the ssm, there needs to be a transition from a system of national bank recovery and resolution regimes to a single european framework. being part of the same banking union framework, the srm will need to be consistent with the ssm. moreover, the srm will need to have an opt-in system for non-euro members that is compatible with the opt-in system of the ssm. my second point is about the risks related to the functioning of a european banking union. firstly, there is a risk that the ecb’s broad scope in terms of the number of banks supervised, and its dual supervision/monetary policy mandate, may put the reputation of the central bank under pressure, so any related risks should be mitigated as far as possible. secondly, there is also a risk that practical problems and political reluctance will delay the set-up of a direct recapitalisation tool via the esm. existing political worries need to be addressed and steps taken towards its implementation as soon as possible. lastly, it is as yet unclear whether a common resolution mechanism can be designed within the current treaties. there is a risk of following the fiscal compact path of an intergovernmental agreement again. this would be one more reform that would move us further away from the community method and increase concerns about the direction in which europe is heading.
in writing. the so-called banking union, or single supervisory mechanism, is designed to effectively prevent crises by supervising crossborder banking groups. polish meps have succeeded in reducing the imbalance between the rights and obligations of euro area countries and those outside the euro area today. it's a big hit. the safeguards negotiated in the european parliament are intended to encourage these countries to participate in joint surveillance. in this way, we safeguard the integrity of the eu's internal market. in times of crisis, when the eu's actions are focused on the euro area, we cannot fragment the market to the detriment of countries like poland.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the initial statements by the council and commission representatives show that we are in full agreement on the basic point: people with visual impairments should have as wide access to the publishing offer as people with sight. however, current figures are very worrying: on average, only 5% of printed publications are accessible to the visually impaired and blind. the situation is even worse in developing countries. it shows the scale of the problem we face. one of the many reasons for this is the fear of publishers that illegal electronic copies of book and magazine formats will be easily released. the first step to facilitating access to culture for visually impaired people is therefore to establish clear rules for the production and distribution of such formats. i am very pleased that the european commission, on the initiative of commissioner barnier, has been working on this problem for some time. as early as 2010, an agreement was concluded under its auspices to regulate this issue at community level. the network of trusted intermediaries was established to identify the beneficiaries, convert the works into secure formats and distribute them. the internet has given us all the opportunity to access culture without national or regional restrictions. to give visually impaired people a chance to benefit from this global digitalisation, an international legal instrument is still needed. the draft treaty of the world intellectual property organization therefore has the potential to initiate a breakthrough in this area. i am convinced that the european commission and the council are negotiating it in a responsible and proper way. however, as we know, the specific nature of the negotiation of international agreements to which the european union is a party is that the flow of information between the institutions is limited, often leading to misinformation, which naturally raises concerns. i am therefore grateful to both the council and the commission for clarifying the doubts raised in the question from the members of the legal affairs committee.
i'm not going to let you do this. by being given the mandate to negotiate the marrakesh agreement, you are in a position to do great things, breakthroughs for many people with disabilities or blindness in europe. these people are waiting for equality of opportunity in access to knowledge and culture. that is why it is so important today, especially in the digital world, to be able to negotiate this agreement effectively, to take into account, of course, the unquestionable right to intellectual property, the right to remuneration, but to make an exception, so that the organizations entitled to do so are able to process copies in braille or otherwise communicate the great cultural heritage of europe, as well as to make available up-to-date knowledge. we wish you well, commissioner, and we hope that you will have a positive impact on the negotiations.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, minister, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. when we drew up the detailed outline of the stockholm programme three years ago, we knew full well that the ambitious plan to undertake a number of legislative initiatives, including judicial cooperation in civil and commercial matters, would be difficult to implement. the legislative work at the interface of 27 legislatures, aimed at solving the most pressing problems facing union citizens, by taking advantage of the privileges of free movement of persons, free choice of work and residence irrespective of nationality, is laborious and highly demanding in technical terms. however, the completion of projects such as brussels i, rome iii, crossborder successions and many others already mentioned by my predecessors is a source of great satisfaction, because it brings with it direct, undeniable added value for our citizens and companies operating in transnational space. as a direct participant in many of the projects that have already been completed, i am well aware that even with the best intentions, some projects, due to their technical and legal nature, take many months and sometimes even years. the stockholm programme has enabled us to put into practice legislative proposals which i hope will be put into practice effectively for the benefit of citizens who may find themselves in difficult situations from time to time. to do so, judicial staff need to be familiar with and able to apply the new rules on cross-border litigation, divorce and inheritance. as a member of the legal affairs committee, i have said many times in this chamber that the law of the unknown is the law of the most unenforced. that's why we're so focused on promoting training for judges and lawyers in our committee. we often stress the importance of information campaigns directed at citizens. we should communicate to them more clearly and even more directly the possibility and the solution that eu law offers in practice. despite the undoubted progress we have made as the european parliament, we are still waiting for a number of projects related to the mutual recognition of civil status documents or the 14th company law directive. after these few years, we know that the legislative work in the area of freedom, security and justice will not end with the stockholm programme. the eu legislation will follow the citizen and the problems he faces, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the european union. much has been done, but we cannot say that everything is done and rest on our laurels. the european commission's recently announced initiative to strengthen the rights of eu citizens also points to further steps to be taken. it therefore appears that the approximation of laws is not only in civil and commercial law... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! as a representative of the polish law and justice party, i am pleased that one of the priorities of the stockholm programme is a 'europe of law and justice'. unfortunately, we have an excess of law and a lack of justice in europe. too often the letter of the law overrides the spirit of justice. an independent and impartial judiciary is not infallible. i say this mainly from the perspective of my own country's experience, but also in part from the cases i know from other countries, for example in relation to the drastic cases of child abduction. the judiciary must be independent, but it cannot be irresponsible and exempt from democratic control, lest the judiciary become a state within a state, or even a state within a state, if the admissibility of judgments is taken into account. we should pay more attention to this.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. the regulation on cross-border succession is without doubt one of the major achievements of this parliament's term of office. it was a very complex and demanding project, and the need for a solution was enormous. it is not necessary to stress once again the importance of these solutions for citizens who find themselves in a difficult situation after the loss of their loved ones, but also, let's not hide it, in a difficult legal situation. those provisions provide for the choice of the law applicable to the entire estate and lay down new conflict-of-law rules in the event of failure to make such a choice. however, i always stress this very strongly: for these rules to be effective, they must be known to the citizens. this is a prerequisite for the effectiveness of any law. but we must admit that the laws of inheritance are quite complicated even for lawyers. of course, the matter is complex, but that does not relieve us of the need to look for much clearer solutions in international succession proceedings. questions also arise about the practical application of certain solutions, particularly in the area which is excluded from the scope of the regulation, namely the issue of double or multiple taxation mentioned by the commissioner. this is clearly a legal and financial problem for the citizens. i am therefore pleased to hear the commissioner assure us that this important problem has been noted by the commission and that further steps will be taken to remedy the difficulties. if the union rules are to really help simplify succession procedures, citizens need to be sure how to exercise this right and what the consequences are before the new rules on cross-border successions come into force.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. already a few months ago, when we were finalising the revision of the regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, abolishing the enforcement procedure and thus allowing the free movement of judgments in the european union, i stressed the enormous importance of the high level of mutual trust in judicial systems that we have managed to achieve in the european union. the report discussed today follows the establishment of the european protection order as a further step towards ensuring citizens' safety and legal certainty when exercising their freedom of movement. the mutual recognition of civil protection instruments is an important complement to this carefully constructed network of law, which will allow people who have often been through very difficult life situations to pursue their personal and professional life plans without fear even outside their own country. it is worth stressing that the main objective of the system of protection and support for victims of crime thus established in all member states is to ensure that they are not re-offended. this preventive dimension can also become an important and effective instrument in the fight against organised crime, especially in the area of trafficking in human beings. we have already discussed the effectiveness of the implementation of the stockholm programme in this house yesterday, and we have given examples of the issues that still need to be addressed. today we have another legal instrument that will in practice help to build a safe european union for its citizens. i also hope that when the rules adopted today come into force in 2015, the knowledge of their application will be widespread, both among lawyers and among citizens.
madam president! the facilitation of the free movement of persons guaranteed by article 3 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union has led to an increasing number of people travelling or moving abroad. this requires common, harmonised legal measures to guarantee citizens the protection and security they enjoy in their own country throughout the union. the commission's initiative on a regulation on mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters will complement the european protection order directive guaranteeing mutual recognition of protection measures in criminal matters and thus help to guarantee the rights of victims across the eu. the combined application of these two instruments criminal and civil will allow persons who have been granted a protection order in one member state to maintain it while travelling or moving to another member state without having to undergo time-consuming procedures. the proposed standardised, multilingual certificate, containing all the relevant information necessary for recognition of protection, will be a great help to all victims. the proposed proposal is an excellent example of simplifying and creating european law that is understandable to citizens, fast and effective throughout the community.
madam president! in the debate on the crisis so far, the social dimension of european integration has very often been overlooked because of the urgent need to restore stability to public finances. but the focus on precautionary measures has led to social crises, as in greece and spain. in the present situation, monetary and monetary union must be complemented by more unified social policies and social investment. this is strategically important for two reasons. first, to restore sustained economic growth in europe, short-term precautionary measures must be complemented by a european strategy for social investment. in addition, it is necessary to create social surveillance in the form of economic surveillance, which will allow better monitoring of the actions taken by the member states. secondly, we will never achieve true economic union without social convergence. we are already seeing that what has hitherto been the competitive advantage of the member states is now, in times of crisis, being called social dumping and leading to protectionist measures. if we want to promote mobility in the european union, we need to create the instruments and conditions for the development of the member states, which will lead to better social convergence in the long term.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported the report by mrs kleva kekuš on the fight against tax fraud, tax evasion and tax havens. in times of financial crisis, the tolerance of these practices should be particularly strongly condemned and eu countries should be consistently forced to take decisive action to prevent the continuation of such practices. the losses are estimated at over eur 1 trillion per year. this has a negative impact on investment, growth and employment. the absence of a centralised union tax policy leads to increased costs and administrative burdens for citizens and businesses, and has a negative impact on consumer sentiment and trust in the tax system in the member states of the european union. the european commission has developed an action plan to reduce the tax gap by half by 2020 in order to put an end to tax fraud. as regards tax fraud and tax evasion, the commission considers that member states should allocate adequate resources to national tax administrations and control staff. the commission believes that eu member states should also withdraw banking licences from financial institutions that facilitate tax fraud. in the case of tax havens, the commission is working to harmonise their definition and to establish a blacklist of member states that have concluded agreements with countries identified as tax havens.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because it is a key element in the european parliament's fight against tax fraud. the report's recommendations go in this direction with proposals to establish greater cooperation between the tax administrations of the member states and the establishment of a generalised automatic exchange of information. the report calls for better knowledge of businesses and individuals at european level to discourage tax fraud, as well as the drafting of an anti-money laundering directive. for all these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. - on 21/05/2013, the european parliament adopted a report by mr klevy kekuš on the situation of the taxpayers, the use of the tax system and the tax framework. i voted in favour of the adoption of this document because i fully appreciate the need to minimise the existence and uniqueness of tax systems in some member states and to address the need to deal with aggressive tax planning in some member states. moreover, i consider that it is necessary to develop a common european approach to tax matters by applying their clear definition and by attending meetings on the basis of which they would be intended to operate. in particular, there is a need to create and subsequently monitor a publicly available 'black list' of jurisdictions that do not want to cooperate with the uniform criteria for administering the data. the commission shall also inform the reporting person of the finding that the offending entities are subject to adequate restrictions.
in writing. − in times of economic crisis, the costs of overcoming the crisis should be fairly distributed. social democrats oppose the burden of the costs of the crisis being shifted onto the middle class and the less well-off. we demand that special burdens be placed on the materially privileged. but that's not how it works. the richest people often bear no burden for the common good. there is understandable public anger. this is possible thanks to the existence of tax havens and tax avoidance laws. the authors of the report write of a tax gap of 1 trillion euros per year. this means that every honest citizen is funding the wealthy tax cheaters with 2,000 euros a year. average tax losses in europe now exceed the total amount that member states spend on healthcare and are more than four times the amount that the eu spends on education. this is information that should sober up european leaders and force them to take decisive action. in this context, it seems necessary to strengthen tax administration in all member states. it is also necessary to apply the criminal law aggressively against fraudsters. in the case of cross-border companies engaged in complex tax engineering, the burden of action should rest with the european institutions. additional measures are also needed to improve taxpayer identification, taxation of electronic commerce, the efficiency of income tax collection mechanisms, and the transparency of business registers and trust fund registration.
in writing. - tax fraud costs the european union a trillion euros a year. this is the amount of the union's multiannual budget. better information exchange between member states and a definition of what a tax haven is needed. some instruments are already in the hands of the member states. the problem is not using them.
in writing. − tax fraud and tax evasion limit the ability of member states to raise revenue and implement economic policies. it is important to establish a coherent, concrete and common european tax strategy, taken into account and implemented by all member states. the rapporteur points out that additional measures are needed to improve the identification of taxpayers, taxation of electronic commerce, the efficiency of tax revenue collection mechanisms, the transparency of business registers and trust fund registration and the effectiveness of the code of conduct on business taxation. it also points to the need to develop a new code of conduct for auditors and advisers. the commission was invited to define tax havens, to develop a common set of criteria for the identification of tax havens and to adopt appropriate measures. it was suggested that the definition be based on the criteria of the global forum and the code of conduct group. the rapporteur considers that the establishment of the european blacklist should result in the suspension or termination of existing double taxation agreements that member states have concluded with legal regimes identified as tax havens and included in the european blacklist.
in writing. - vat evasion and tax avoidance have become a business in the european union. therefore, we must take appropriate precautions. the aim is to reduce the period for introducing the reverse charge procedure from around eight months to two. such a procedure consists in transferring the obligation to pay vat from the supplier to the purchaser in the event of abuses that may occur in the steel industry in poland. according to the oecd's report on addressing the issue of tax base erosion and profit shifting, the most important policy issue to be addressed is that common international rules defined on the basis of national experience in the allocation of tax jurisdictions have not kept pace with the changing business environment. it should be borne in mind that the establishment of international standards based on the principles of transparency, exchange of information and abolition of harmful tax measures requires increased activity on the part of the commission and the member states in the international arena.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adoption of the annual report by ildikó gáll-pelcz on unlocking the european union's growth potential. stimulating economic growth in the european union, particularly when public finance is needed to cope with the crisis, is the basis for the community's dynamic development. tax policy should focus on strengthening the european economy, increasing demand and exports and, as is currently the biggest problem, creating jobs. investing in education and training and in new technologies is important, as this has a global impact on the knowledge-based economy of the union. as the report rightly points out, many businesses operating across borders face bureaucratic obstacles, administrative costs and other barriers. i think that's unacceptable! it is in the interest of the european union to curb such practices and impediments. the report also stresses the need for budgetary discipline to restore the credibility of budgetary policy and reduce public debt. i believe that the solutions proposed will give a new impetus to the union's financial policy and bring tangible and measurable benefits in the longer term.
in writing. − on 21 may 2013, the european parliament adopted in plenary the report by ms gáll-pelcz on the annual report on taxation. i voted to pass this document. like the rapporteur, i welcome the idea of a smart eu system (tax snake) which would coordinate member states' tax strategies, and this coordination would take place within the framework of the european semester. in order to ensure the effectiveness of such a solution, work should be done to extend the scope of the automatic exchange of tax information. moreover, i recognise the need to combat tax fraud, including double taxation, double tax exemption and discriminatory practices against businesses. in the context of this report, the key issue is to develop a common and effective approach at union level.
in writing. - the situation in which the average european finances tax fraudsters and tax evaders with €2,000 a year is most outrageous. this is not something that can be accepted by european leaders and european institutions in the long term. the annual report on taxes contains a proposal for the introduction of a so-called tax snake, which would coordinate them in such a way as to take account of existing tax cuts and increases in each of them. it's a proposal that requires consideration. however, it should not be seen as a lasting alternative to tax harmonisation in the european union. it can, however, be seen as part of the approach to tax harmonisation at european level. at the same time, the introduction of a financial transaction tax (ftt) should be recalled. the enhanced cooperation of the member states group in this area is a step in the right direction. but it's not enough.
in writing. - the current debt crisis has made the european union aware of a number of problems requiring an appropriate adjustment of tax policy. barriers to internal markets and the ambiguities and misunderstandings resulting from legal loopholes should be eliminated without delay. it is necessary to apply budgetary discipline and introduce structural reform and focus on growth and promotion of consumption taxes. in view of the problem of double taxation and tax evasion, the eu has drawn attention to the need to find an urgent solution to these problems.
in writing. − having regard to the letter of 5 september 2011 from the government of the czech republic to the council concerning the draft protocol on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to the czech republic and the request by the european council for consent not to convene the convention, the european parliament concluded that there was no need to convene a convention to examine the request for the inclusion of the czech republic in protocol no 30 on the application of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union to poland and the united kingdom, as even if the request had any effect, it would be limited.
the charter of fundamental rights is a highly unfortunate document, because a number of its provisions strike directly at traditional european values. poland and the united kingdom are rightly blocking its use in their countries. i therefore welcomed the request of the czech government to extend the protocol no 30 restricting the use of the card to that country. unfortunately, the neutral nature of this report meant that, although the czech authorities' request was not rejected, it was not accepted either. i consider the motives of the members of the constitutional affairs committee for this position to be clearly political, having nothing to do with substantive considerations. the support of a motion formulated in this way in a plenary vote could set a very negative precedent. i have no doubt, however, that it is pointless to convene an international conference to examine a request for inclusion in the protocol from a member state which expresses such a wish. the position on this issue should be the exclusive domain of the states concerned.
in writing. − in a common area of justice without internal borders, judicial cooperation in civil matters in the union is based on the principle of mutual recognition of judicial and extrajudicial decisions. the provisions are intended to ensure the rapid and simple enforcement of measures taken in another member state to maintain and continue the protection granted to a natural person in any other member state. the commission proposal highlights the need to provide support and protection for victims of all forms of violence within the eu.
in writing. − canada remains an important trade and political partner of the european union. the customs cooperation agreement between brussels and ottawa paves the way towards greater and safer trade liberalisation between the two entities. it is an excellent foundation for a future trade and economic agreement, especially as the canadian authorities have shown an interest in further strengthening ties. the agreement also provides for cooperation in international fora such as the world customs organization and opens the possibility of mutual recognition of customs security agreements. in the context of increasing globalisation, cooperation on trade and related security of supply is essential. the community has already concluded similar agreements with other countries in pursuit of the objectives of international economic cooperation. i hope that these actions will increase the effectiveness of detecting potentially dangerous cargoes, as well as cases of illegal border crossing, such as those that have occurred at the southern border of the union. on the basis of the above arguments, i believe that parliament should give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. - in voting on the report by mr peter šťastný, i supported the preliminary draft agreement between the european union and canada. increasing globalisation, the radicalisation of social attitudes in third world countries, global terrorism and cyber threats are increasingly affecting the functioning of the european union. these factors have a negative impact on the intensification of trade with partners outside the union, including canada. the two partners are bound by the customs cooperation and mutual assistance agreement of 1998. to the satisfaction of the european union, canada has demonstrated a willingness to cooperate more closely on supply chain security and risk management. the focus of the amendment is to systematise the customs aspects of the security of the logistics chain in international trade. in addition, the amendment guarantees closer cooperation between the partners on standards and risk management, security, information and data exchange, strategic cooperation on cargo inspection, as well as cooperation in multilateral fora, including the world customs organization. the contract design is further enhanced by the fact that it is based on the latest standards of the world customs organisation's framework of security standards. i therefore believe that cooperative trade relations to minimise risk and promote international standards without unnecessary burdens on authorities and economic operators will bring tangible and long-term benefits to both partners.
in writing. − safety is an important element of effective trade. this is essential for the smooth running of businesses, regardless of the sector in which they operate. this also undoubtedly has an impact on the quality of the services provided. in the era of globalisation, supply chain security is becoming an even more important element of trade. the eu bases its international cooperation on the promotion of global security standards, in particular the world customs organization security standards framework, the exchange of information and data and the mutual recognition of credible economic operators. in a globalised world, no country can ensure the security of its supply chain on its own. international cooperation and standards are therefore crucial. i voted in favour of the recommendation because the future conclusion of an agreement between the european union and canada is part of a broader process and of the more active actions taken in the last decade in the field of supply chain security and risk management. the new agreement aims to strengthen the customs aspects of the security of the international trade logistics chain, including container security, while facilitating legitimate trade. the eu has already concluded negotiations and reached an agreement on mutual recognition of the aeo with japan and the united states. the eu-canada supply chain security agreement will allow for negotiations on such an agreement with canada as well
in writing. − in a globalised world, it is impossible for a country to conduct supply chain security alone. there is a need for international cooperation in order to have confidence in the legitimacy of the trade. i believe that this is a right step towards ensuring that the international trade between the eu and canada will be secure and admissible. moreover, i think that the increased effectiveness in the security is going to eliminate any type of delays that could have been encountered in the old agreement of 1998. it will make the process flow more smoothly. the recommendation successfully highlights the security measures that are going to be appointed and the benefits that will result. i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. − i believe that international cooperation between the union and canada is essential to ensure the security of the supply chain and to facilitate legitimate trade. the eu-canada supply chain security agreement will allow for negotiations on mutual recognition of authorised economic operators (aeos) with canada. the agreement will be managed by the eu-canada joint customs cooperation committee, which will have the power to take implementing decisions, including on mutual recognition. the customs cooperation and mutual assistance agreement (cmaa) of 1998 will remain the general basis for customs cooperation between the eu and canada. the new agreement will build on key elements of the world customs organization's security standards framework to secure and facilitate global trade.
in writing. − the establishment of clear and transparent criteria for banking supervision is one of the major challenges facing the european union. negligence in the financial sector, which is not properly controlled, can lead to unforeseen consequences, which we experienced during the current crisis. the stable economic development of the community countries thus depends to a large extent on the establishment of a european banking authority. in accordance with the opinion of the parliamentary committee on budgets, in order to preserve the financial independence of the european central bank, the newly created office should be financed from the union budget. we must not forget to create the appropriate tools and criteria to enable the eba to supervise all financial institutions in a transparent, reliable and uniform manner.
in writing. - i believe that the unification of the supervisory mechanism will make it possible to create a fully developed banking union, which will be able to solve the problem of private and public debt. fragmenting regulatory systems will not help in fighting the financial crisis or in fighting debt. there is a need to further strengthen the european banking authority so that there is an opportunity to deepen the internal market and to avoid a division between euro area and non-euro area members.
in writing. − we have adopted today two reports establishing a preliminary common european surveillance for the euro area countries. as a result, it will be possible to control the cross-border banking groups that have dominated the european financial market. strict supervision of the big banks will help us to prevent crises like the one that hit the world economy in 2008, and the effects of which are still being felt in europe. a common european banking supervision is only the first step in building a banking union. as a result of its creation, the competences of the national supervisory authorities in the euro area will be transferred to the european level. the european central bank (ecb) has been given the status of european supervisor, with supervisory powers over the 150 largest european banks. the ecb will be able, inter alia, to require these banks to maintain an appropriate level of reserves and to grant licences. however, it is important to ensure the separation of the ecb's monetary and supervisory policies. there is still a great deal of uncertainty as to the division of competences between the various supervisory authorities. there is no doubt that economic coordination and fiscal policy harmonisation at european level need to be further strengthened.
in writing. − the fragmentation of the financial sector is a threat to the integrity of the single currency and the single market. the harmonisation of the supervisory mechanism is essential. to this end, it is necessary to establish a european banking union comprising a single supervisory mechanism and a common framework for deposit guarantee, resolution and winding-up. the banking union should include both euro area members and candidate countries. the ecb is the competent institution for the exercise of the supervisory tasks over credit institutions in the participating member states, due to its expertise and credibility.
in writing. - pyrotechnic articles are specific articles which are widely available and which, if used improperly, can pose a direct threat to the health or even the life of citizens. the safety of products in community trade is also a necessary condition for the construction of the single market. in this respect, the coherence of the rules is of the utmost importance. the current loose interpretation, on the other hand, allows for often unequal competition and trade in goods that may be considered dangerous or harmful. the report by mrs roithová makes a number of amendments to the commission proposal to improve consumer protection. for example, it is necessary to provide clear and comprehensible instructions and information on labels, which is of particular importance for the safety of children. it also requires states to monitor and address mislabelling of pyrotechnic products. in order to reduce administrative formalities, manufacturers were also allowed to provide the required declarations of conformity electronically.
in writing. − to ensure consumer safety in the internal market, comprehensive action is needed in a number of areas. one such area is the issue of the placing on the market of pyrotechnic articles. we already have legislation which sets out the essential requirements that must be met before these products are placed on the market, but there is a need to harmonise the legislation of the member states in this area. the directives in question should be adapted to the new legal framework adopted as a 'package of goods' as early as 2008. the sectors covered by these directives are very important industrial sectors, subject to strong international competition, and will benefit from simplification and a level playing field for european businesses. i voted in favour of the report because the alignment of the directives in question with the legal framework of the commodity package is an important step towards the completion of the single market. that legal framework introduces a simplified regulatory environment for products and allows for a more consistent application of technical standards, which will help to improve the functioning of the single market by ensuring equal treatment of non-compliant products and economic operators, as well as equal assessment of notified bodies within the eu market, and reduce the number of non-compliant and dangerous products on the market. i also find it very important that the commission based its conclusions in the adjustment package on extensive consultations, especially with smes, which allowed companies to share directly their experience with the 'commodity package'.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the aligning of the nine product directives to the new legislative framework is an essential step to the completion of the eu single market. consistent implementation and enforcement are necessary to establish fair competition and safe products, and manifest the characteristics of a strong single market. additionally, i agree with the recommended changes to directive 2007/23/ec on pyrotechnic articles. they have been clearly outlined and effectively argued.
in writing. − firms manufacturing and placing pyrotechnic articles on the market will have to ensure that they meet certain requirements and confirm this by means of the ce marking. the new regulations on explosives for civilian use prepared by the ministry of economy will improve the safety of their use and disposal. the draft law was adopted by the government on 23 february. firms manufacturing or placing pyrotechnic articles on the market will determine the class of the product according to the degree of danger in use, the intensity of the sound and the availability of the product to users. they will also be required to display information labels in polish, including the name and address of the manufacturer or importer, the name and type of the product, the class of the product, the authorised place of use, etc. the rules adopted concern so-called spectacular pyrotechnic articles, as well as articles intended for theatrical use and for technical applications, e.g. in car airbags.
in writing. −i am in favour of the adoption of a directive regulating the trade in pyrotechnic articles. i consider it particularly important to improve the level of protection of consumers, who are frequent users of pyrotechnic articles without being professionals. i believe that the placing on the market of a pyrotechnic article should be subject to the affixing of the name and the contact address of the manufacturer so that the manufacturer can be identified. it seems to me appropriate that, in the case of imported products, the name and address of the importer should be given in addition. the safety of children, the elderly and the disabled must be particularly enhanced. i believe that these measures could reduce the number of accidents and human suffering associated with the misuse of pyrotechnic substances
in writing. - i thank mr boris for the preparation of this report. the report is critical of the european commission's report on the application of the audiovisual media services directive. as the rapporteur notes, it is important to increase the availability of 'on-demand' programmes in europe by further developing audio description, voice dialogue and sign language. it is also important to be concerned about young ones whose bad eating habits may be shaped by advertisements for foods high in sugar or fat. i am glad that this problem has been addressed by different circles and i hope that it will have the desired effect. i therefore support the report drawn up by mr boris.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it presents the key elements that have to be revised and accounted for in the audiovisual media services directive. accessibility needs to be considered in these types of services so that every citizen of the eu can be equally represented. the promotion of european works has to be encouraged so that we can fully support eu media companies. minors have to be protected against advertising that promotes alcoholic beverages, unhealthy products and bad consumption patterns, so that we can raise a strong youthful population that will be able to successfully lead the eu in the future. consequently, the rapid technological changes are having an enormous impact on the audiovisual services market. therefore, it is essential that the commission does an in-depth analysis on the matter.
in writing. − i voted in support of the report on the implementation of the audiovisual media services directive (2012/2132(ini)). as is clearly stated in the report, this directive is aimed at protecting our public, providing freedom of information, promoting european works and creating a level playing field for broadcasters. while some member states have already begun to implement the regulations, there are many who have yet to do so. these regulations are very important to our society in that they uphold the standards of the market economy and provide for protection for our children regarding programming and advertising. as technology continues to grow rapidly we must have checks in place so as to prevent a broadcasting monopoly and allowing for unrestricted flow and access to information. likewise, as we are a union made up of 27 member states with different cultures and histories, broadcasting and the internet are valuable tools for teaching one another about the various countries and people that make up the eu. i find allotting and providing a percentage of airtime for certain ‘european works’ to be very important to the continued success of the eu.
in writing. − cultural and technological changes and increased access to broadband internet are giving millions of viewers the opportunity to watch traditional tv programmes via hybrid tv (tablets, smartphones or consoles). the directive focuses on ways of promoting european works, works by independent creators, effective consumer protection, ensuring a level playing field for broadcasters and protecting media freedom. attention was also drawn to the need to increase the availability of programmes, in particular programmes provided as an on-demand service, by further developing, inter alia, the audio description of the image, voice dialogue letters, sign language and navigation, in particular the electronic programme guide.
good afternoon. i am sorry for being a little late but we had a problem of a procedural nature. as you will remember there was a request from the epp group concerning the guantánamo debate, but we will reach that issue at the second point. let me say that the sitting is resumed. we have received a request from mr borghezio to make a personal statement, with which we will start this sitting.
i have received a request from the epp group pursuant to rule 177(1) of the rules of procedure to adjourn the debate on guantánamo scheduled for thursday afternoon. i would like to ask whether mr salafranca sánchez-neyra wants to take the floor right now.
according to the decision taken by the president of the house, the request will be put to the vote before the debate tomorrow, which means tomorrow at 15.00, in accordance with the second subparagraph of rule 177(1). if you can agree, the decision will be taken by the house tomorrow afternoon at the very beginning of the plenary sitting on urgencies.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation of syrian refugees in neighbouring countries (2013/2611(rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. today, no option of european involvement in syria can be ruled out. we have reason to fear that our inaction is causing thousands more innocent victims. this helplessness is a consequence of the chronic inability of the un security council and the european union itself to act in crisis situations. but today i want to draw attention to the scenario that we are seeing in syria, the scenario that we are seeing in iraq. for millions of syrian christians, the political changes mean an increasingly clear alternative: flee or wait to die at the hands of radical islamists who are carrying out a plan of religious cleansing in syria, directed primarily against the traditional christian communities that have lived there for 2,000 years. if we want to help syria, and the syrian national coalition itself, on their way to freedom, we must weed out of the camp of assad's opponents those for whom political freedom means above all impunity for their campaign of hatred against their own citizens of other faiths.
mr. chairman, please! the surest way to solve the syrian refugee problem would be to solve the root cause of their flight from syria. the reason for this is, of course, the civil war. ending it immediately would solve some of the problems. the paradox is that some donors who help refugees are also supporting the side of the conflict. in other words, they are prolonging the conflict for political reasons, and they are the direct cause of the daily increase in the number of refugees. the second paradox is that refugees are even in egypt, which does not border syria, but they are not in israel, which is much closer. of course, we know why this is happening, we take it for granted, but if you think about it, you have to admit that it is not a normal situation. i am convinced that without a political solution to the conflict in syria, the refugee problem will only grow, and this in turn could lead to a worsening of the situation in the entire region. the first step should be a ceasefire. the international community should actively help to negotiate the terms of the ceasefire and i am pleased that the european commission is engaged in such efforts. at the same time, we should help refugees as effectively as we can.
mr. chairman, please! the deepening conflict in syria and the threat of its escalation are affecting the entire international community. however, its immediate negative effects are felt by neighboring countries. the syrian population, increasingly forced to leave their homes, is seeking refuge abroad. the number of refugees has reached one and a half million. the actions of neighbouring countries, in particular turkey, lebanon and jordan, as well as iraq and egypt, which are actively engaged in assisting syrian citizens, are widely praised. however, the growing influx of refugees threatens to seriously undermine their socioeconomic stability. it is becoming increasingly difficult to guarantee them access to water, food, medical care and other humanitarian needs. the refugee camps are overcrowded. i therefore welcome the declaration by brussels that it will allocate substantial financial resources to help syrians, both at home and in exile. we cannot remain indifferent to this conflict, especially given the continuing risk of the regime's use of chemical weapons. i hope that the wave of terror in syria will be stopped immediately and i call on president assad to step down and allow the democratic process in the country to begin.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. you can see that this is a debate that is filled with hopelessness and lack of ideas. all we can do is keep track of the number of refugees or the number of victims. everyone knows this is not a fight with or for assad. this is a fight for the footholds that various states, organizations, including terrorist organizations, will have on syrian territory after its collapse. iran is arming hezbollah, sending advanced missiles that will probably one day be aimed at israel. there's no telling when the locks on the chemical weapons stockpile will pop. we don't know what al-qaeda is up to, because they've officially declared themselves a party to the conflict, and so on and so forth. we see that each day brings only bad news. let's prepare for more bad news, because with this kind of approach by the international community, we will see this country disappear from the face of the earth and the people who were once its citizens die.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. it is clear that we have not had such a dramatic situation for a long time, with so many refugees - 1.5 million (un experts estimate that there could be 3 million by the end of the year, some even 4 million). this gigantic number requires the combined efforts of the entire international community: the arab states, turkey, europe, the united states -- all of them. we all know, of course, that the only effective solution to the refugee problem is to return home. to do this, political solutions are needed, and perhaps military action should not be ruled out either. i wanted to ask the commissioner whether we are planning a european union diplomatic offensive in this area in the near future. are we planning to talk to russia because they're crucial to this case?
in writing. syria is an example of the failure of the un security council to act against the steadily increasing number of serious human rights violations, war crimes and crimes against humanity. the situation in syria should be dealt with by the international criminal court. it would send a strong message that those who commit such crimes will be brought to justice. the conflict in syria has been going on for over two years, and its consequences for the civilian population have been tragic. according to the un high commissioner for refugees, some 3.6 million syrians have already fled the country. there are 1.1 million refugees in the countries bordering syria. civilians who have lost their homes to civil war are seeking refuge in lebanon, jordan, turkey and iraq. currently, an average of five people leave syria every minute. the situation in the refugee camps is becoming more difficult. adverse climatic conditions (winds, heavy rain and snow) further exacerbate the situation. the conflict in syria is a humanitarian disaster, with more than 90,000 people dead. behind those numbers are real tragedies. to help the syrians, we must go beyond immediate humanitarian aid work more intensively on a political solution to end the conflict. the proposed international peace conference on ending the conflict in syria should take place as soon as possible. the current arms embargo is clouding the prospect of a political solution to the syrian crisis.
on behalf of the ecr group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: today, we are reassessing bosnia and herzegovina's progress towards european union integration, and there is no doubt that it is the country with the weakest de facto position among the western balkan countries with an enlargement perspective. therefore, there is no doubt that the authorities there must seriously focus their efforts on good governance, the rule of law, the building of democratic institutions, the establishment of an independent and impartial judiciary, the improvement of administrative capacity and social and economic reforms, as well as the fight against unemployment. corruption, which permeates virtually all areas of public life, and human trafficking also remain a huge problem. the position of bosnia and herzegovina is also weakened by the lack of an independent and pluralistic media and by the deep ethnic divisions. however, i believe that the enlargement of the european union to include the western balkan countries is an investment in both the stability of the region and the stability of the european union's neighbourhood, and i hope that bosnia and herzegovina will be able to meet all the criteria required by the european union in this respect.
thank you so much! this discussion shows that the situation in bosnia and herzegovina is not satisfactory for any of us. but the fundamental question is: does this mean that this country should not have a prospect of joining the union? i think that this perspective should be taken, otherwise the european union will lose a very important instrument for influencing the situation in bosnia and herzegovina. when discussing this country, one should always keep in mind its historical and ethnic context. i think it would be better if bosnia and herzegovina sought to join the union, if it sought to meet all the criteria and requirements for joining the union, than if it was left to itself.
mr. chairman, please! i get the feeling that some of the debates here are always the same. some in this house feel that the association agreement, the negotiations, some legal gesture on the part of the union towards our partners is a christmas present or a name change. others understand that it's the best instrument for change. if we want societies to modernise; if we want europe to develop; if we want people to travel and to communicate with each other; if we understand that this is the best way of reaching an agreement, then we must say clearly in such situations: 'yes, we want to open negotiations!' because there have been changes in the judiciary in macedonia, because the agreement was signed, because commissioner füle, president buzek, mr howitt were involved. there are a thousand reasons for doing so, and any other attitude is really a false attitude, because behind it there is no positive intention, but a desire to make europe our own, which will one day give us a headache.
madam president! we are embarking on a great work, to lay the foundations of what will become the common transatlantic market of the future. for now, we need to negotiate and make a deal with the united states. we wish commissioner de gucht the best of luck. this agreement will create more jobs in the european union, we will achieve more economic growth. but we must remember that this agreement will be primarily about harmonizing standards and different regulations. it will be an agreement that will lead to the creation of a very strong economic bloc that will strengthen the values that are important to us in the world: democracy, human rights, freedom. but we also have to remember that there are areas where the differences between us and the americans are very profound. and that's the area of intellectual property rights, and specifically how they're implemented, how they're enforced. as a member and vice chairman of the foreign trade commission, i wanted to declare that i will do everything to ensure that acta does not return to europe by a backdoor.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we have a lot in common with the united states - we have a history, we have common values, we have transatlantic security and defence cooperation. and of course, there are many fields in which we compete, but who in today's world does not? and there are also companies from germany and france, and from poland and italy, and so on. overall, i think that this future agreement, this potential agreement, which would greatly facilitate economic exchange, trade and investment between the european union and the united states, will bring a lot of good and will have positive effects for both the european and american economies and consumers. there are two areas where we are at odds here in the european parliament, in this house: it is the issue of culture, the issue of audiovisual intellectual property. i think maybe this should be a whole different conversation in the future. you can't talk about culture between corn and salmon and helicopters. and the second thing is the defense industry. my view, as well as that of my polish colleagues, is that including the defence industry in these talks will help the european defence industry to gain access to the us market, for example.
on behalf of the efd group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: when the european union, of which we are members, was founded in the 1950s, it was designed to remove barriers to relations between people. we are now trying to do the same with other countries. we give special preferences to certain developing countries so that their economies can establish themselves in our market and have positive economic growth. despite various problems, mainly related to forced labour, burma lost such preferences from the european union in 1997. however, as colleagues have already said, we have seen some progress in this area since 2011 and despite the various problems that burma still faces, i think we should give the country a chance and support the proposal.
rapporteur. − mr president, tomorrow we will vote on one of the most crucial reports of this term – one which falls within the scope of eu trade and investment policy. with this report we are taking the final step towards establishing a consistent and comprehensive common foreign eu trade policy. we have managed to set up a framework that will allow the eu to manage its financial responsibilities resulting from investor state dispute settlements (isds). as we know, various eu countries were – often, and with increasing frequency in recent years – subject to dispute settlements held at various tribunals. now, after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, it is the eu that has exclusive competence over foreign direct investment. it also takes responsibility for financial commitments resulting from lost civil cases. the core issue in this file was obviously the right apportionment of the obligation to pay awards to an investor. in other words, the decision concerns when and under what conditions the eu pays the awarded sum, and when it is the obligation of the member state concerned to do so. i believe, along with other shadow rapporteurs here whom i would like to thank for their excellent cooperation, that we have managed to find a reasonable and widely acceptable solution, the best proof of this being that the vast majority of votes cast in the committee on international trade (inta) were in support of my report. i am sure that here in the plenary we will also gain a big majority for this report and that soon we will be able to start our trialogue negotiations. it is vital for the eu to have the entire debate on this file completed and the regulation implemented as soon as possible. using this opportunity, i would like also to congratulate the commission on preparing a very good draft, a very good proposal, which we could work on. once the decision is taken by parliament, we will discuss this in the trialogue. i would now like to stop outlining the scope of my report, for i would like to take this opportunity to tackle another important issue that has been added to our agenda in relation to the isds dossier. it is the oral question that i tabled together with several other meps from various political groups on the interaction between eu law and international investment law. there are a number of so-called intra-eu bilateral investment treaties (bits) concluded between various eu members. the commission itself takes the view that these treaties are incompatible with eu law and that they should be terminated. i asked, therefore, what steps the commission had taken to persuade the member states to terminate these bits. in our question, we also tackled the issue of provisions related to the free transfer of capital and their compatibility with eu law, as well as the issue of the level of investment protection that will be granted to foreign investors in future union agreements. there have recently been many concerns about the fact that those agreements might potentially grant foreign investors a higher protection level than that enjoyed by domestic investors from our member states. having just completed building up our external investment policy, i reckon that it is high time that we sort things out domestically within our own venue. having signalled those problems, i thank you for your attention and i count on a comprehensive debate on them in this house not only today, but in the near future, with a view to finding a satisfactory solution.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank everybody who made comments on the dossier, on the final report accepted by inta. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his clarifications. it is really important to understand that, whenever it is possible, whenever our partner has a mature legal system and an independent judiciary which can bring about improvements and the realisation of the rule of law, then we will limit our isds regulations. however, it is clear – and you, commissioner, confirmed – that it is needed in many cases, and that we have to vote for this instrument. it is greatly needed in many cases just to protect and secure our european investments abroad. therefore, i will ask tomorrow for votes in favour of the version which was adopted by the inta committee without any amendments. i would like to ask for your support for this report. once again thank you very much.
author. − madam president, i speak as the chair of the committee which has tabled this oral question and the resolution. let me start by saying that the alps have a very long, strong tradition of cooperation between member states’ regions and local communities and people. this cooperation has been overwhelmingly focused on tangible concrete projects with high added value. in recent years we have witnessed efforts in this part of europe to intensify cooperation. we have seen a growing political commitment to working together and major improvements in governance. this is the reason why, after many years of this strong tradition of cooperation, the regions decided, during the 2012 conference of the alpine regions, to embark on a more institutionalised framework for cooperation via a macro-regional strategy for the alps. they promoted this approach as a key instrument to fully exploit the enormous development potential of this part of europe and to cope more efficiently with challenges that do not respect administrative or political borders. this bottom-up initiative by the alpine regions has been maturing for many years. specific areas of cooperation have already been identified. the alps cooperation has already proved to be effective, and for this reason, upgrading it to eu level through a macro-regional strategy framework constitutes an obvious step forward, reinforcing european territorial cooperation in those regions. we need more cooperation in europe. it is therefore quite natural that the committee on regional development (regi), which i chair, when reflecting on the added value of macro-regional strategies has decided to support the ambition of the regions to develop a macro-regional strategy for the alps. the regi committee has tabled this oral question to the council and to the commission, accompanied by a resolution, formulating explicitly the request that an eu macro-regional strategy for the alps be elaborated and implemented.
i am very pleased that the european parliament is finally taking up the european mountain areas, which are so important for the future territorial development of the european union. the union has long been reluctant to give mountain regions their proper place in regional development policy. it is good that we are thinking of creating a macro-regional strategy for the alpine region, but at the same time i would urge that we also look at the second largest mountain range in europe, which is larger than the alps, the carpathians, which in a unique way fulfils the criteria of the macro-regional strategies described by the european commission. it is a region of great geopolitical importance, rich in culture, nature and society, linking european countries with a tripartite status member states, accession countries and those covered by the eastern partnership. however, it is also the least competitive region, comprising the weakest, poorest areas of the european union. however, the carpathians are not included in any multilateral cooperation under the european union's macro-regional programmes. the carpathian region needs immediate transport, infrastructure, environmental and support for local entrepreneurship. taking advantage of the alps' experience, the carpathians require a separate european programme. i hope that today's debate will pave the way for the development of a macro-regional strategy for both the alps and the carpathians.
madam president! i am a strong supporter of macro-regional strategies, as they bring many benefits and opportunities to the area, allowing for better use of the potential of individual regions and allowing for a comprehensive solution to many problems. cooperation between countries in setting objectives, aligning funds and tackling common challenges can contribute to improving spatial integration and thus to increasing the competitiveness of the regional economy. in addition, macro-regional strategies open up new perspectives for territorial cooperation projects and can ensure more fruitful cooperation between regional programmes and the europe 2020 objectives. territorial and social cohesion is one of the fundamental objectives of the member states, and we should therefore support concrete proposals and ideas for action, and such action is the development of macro-regional strategies that will allow for more coordinated, comprehensive and coherent action to address the challenges and problems of the regions of the european union. for many years in my region, the subcarpathian region, we have been working on a macro-regional strategy for the carpathians, which has strong social support. i have repeatedly stressed the need for this, both at the meetings of the regional development committee and at other meetings. the work on the subsequent macro-regional strategies raises a question which i would like to put to the commissioner: is there a chance of creating a macro-regional strategy for the carpathians? a region which meets all the conditions of a macro-region, which also has a great potential that can be exploited more effectively and better protected? a macro-regional strategy for the carpathians would address many of the problems facing the region, such as poor infrastructure, marked socio-economic disparities, population migration and the protection of its rich fauna and flora. such a strategy would be a more effective continuation of the current activities and the extensive cooperation that has been in place for many years in this particular region.
mr. chairman, please! we are glad to see that so many people in the european union have animals and care for them. caring for animals is a good part of human nature, so we should make it easier for owners and carers to travel with their pets. the proposed legislation and mr schnellhardt's report are moving in that direction. i congratulate the rapporteur on his ability to improve this regulation, which is moving in the right direction, and to reconcile these necessary facilitations with the minimum requirements in the fields of health, public and animal health. i am grateful for the amendment which adds that the putting to sleep of an animal, if there is a breach of the rules of its movement, is an absolute last resort, so that there are no dramatic situations where healthy animals are put to sleep just because of bureaucratic procedures. this is a very important amendment!
mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for their support. i would like to request the postponement of the final vote on the legislative resolution and request that the file be referred back to the committee on international trade to start the trialogue negotiations. i would like to ask you for your kind support.
in writing. − the modernisation of the existing eu customs code is of the utmost importance for the proper functioning and management of the electronic environment for customs and trade. the modernised code includes an import procedure which confers community status on goods imported from countries outside the customs territory of the union, which means that they are treated as community goods and are not subject to restrictions.
mr. chairman, please! the application of trade preferences to the least developed countries is an effective mechanism to support their economic growth. access to european markets is often a key stabilising factor for them. burma is a country where there have been and continue to be egregious practices of discrimination against citizens and human rights violations. the authorities' progress in this area is not satisfactory, but the international labour organisation has lifted the restrictions imposed, considering that the violations of workers' rights are no longer serious. it's certainly a good prognosticator. the fact is that the burmese government has taken serious steps to eliminate forced labour, following the un recommendations. while restoring the tariff preferences, the union must closely monitor the actions of the burmese authorities, and in particular the military, which still uses forced labour in some regions. furthermore, religious conflicts are intensifying in that country, and the international community cannot afford to remain silent.
in writing. − under the generalised system of preferences, the european union grants trade preferences to developing countries. the scheme is designed to contribute to the economic development of these countries. however, in certain situations, in particular serious and systematic breaches of the rules by a country to which preferences have been granted, they may be temporarily withdrawn. this is what happened in burma. these preferences, in the light of the efforts of burma, should be restored, although there are still open issues on which europe must demand progress from burma, such as further democratisation of the country, further peace talks with ethnic groups denied citizenship, the release of remaining political prisoners, etc.
in writing. − the introduction of trade restrictions on myanmar/burma by the european union in 1997 was justified. but since then, much has changed in this country. progress has been made in respecting human rights, and many political prisoners have been released, including nobel peace prize laureate aung san suu kyi, who spent 20 years under house arrest. the main opposition party, the national league for democracy, has been re-legalised. today, aung san suu kyi herself is advocating for the lifting of international sanctions. it is also important to realize that the continued economic sanctions are contributing to the strengthening of chinese influence in the country. because of its access to the indian ocean, myanmar/burma remains an important trade partner and freight route for china. however, the union should not ignore the fact that not all political prisoners have been released and that ethnic and religious problems are flaring up. the return of myanmar/burma to the gsp will benefit its economy and citizens, as well as eu investors. however, attention must still be paid to whether the democratization of the country is not being hampered and whether workers' rights are being respected. the eu should support developing countries, but this can only happen if they respect human rights.
in writing. − in accordance with a council regulation, myanmar/burma's access to gsp tariff preferences was temporarily withdrawn in 1997 due to the systematic and widespread practice of forced labour. since 2011, myanmar/burma has undertaken a number of reforms to comply with the principles of the convention. the international labour conference therefore lifted the restrictions on myanmar/burma, which restored its access to the gsp.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation was supplemented by financial liability issues, including, in cases of non-transposition of a directive by a member state, the determination of the upper limit of liability and the obligation to inform the ep and the council of the decision taken to designate the respondent (the decision whether the union or the member state should be the respondent).
in writing. − the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has made it necessary to review the existing rules on health requirements for domestic animals in transport. the modernisation of the rules is intended to make it easier for owners to accompany their animals when travelling within the union and to third countries, while taking into account animal health safety and public health and safety.
in writing. - in today's vote i voted in favour of the report by mr horst schnellhardt on the amendment of the requirements for the importation into the european union of dogs, cats and ferrets and the trade in these animals. the european commission's proposal does not introduce any radical changes, but only extends the period during which animals must undergo a clinical examination before travel by a veterinarian authorised by the competent authority to confirm that they are fit for transport on the intended route. the commission plans to align the 24-hour period with the recommendations of the world organisation for animal health, which provides for, inter alia, a 48-hour period. the rapporteur's intention is to facilitate the travel of both people and animals and to ensure the highest level of health safety.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the conditions in the world are constantly changing and i believe that it is proper to revise the current regulation no 998/2003 concerning the movement of pets. the report clearly highlights the improvements that have been achieved and the modifications to the above-mentioned regulation that are essential for things to proceed smoothly. it also successfully demonstrates how the difficulties currently encountered with the movements of pets will be eliminated. moreover, i agree with the proposed amendments. they have been put forward for legitimate technical and practical reasons.
in writing. − animal health is of concern to all eu citizens as it relates to public health and safety, food safety and the economic costs that can result from animal disease outbreaks. it is important to prevent such a danger by appropriate control measures. the proposal focused on simplifying the existing legal framework and strengthening the animal health sector through the introduction of preventive measures.
in writing. − it is essential for the smooth functioning of the emu that specific procedures are in place and that member states, in particular those in the euro area, inform each other and the commission of side effects that may threaten the smooth functioning of the internal market and of economic and monetary union before taking decisions on economic policy. the cmo should not be limited to a system of rules, but should focus on increasing budgetary capacity. the ugc will therefore aim to harmonise public accounting standards in all member states, to create a strengthened framework for economic and budgetary supervision and control, and to achieve a more thorough integration of decision-making in the areas of taxation policy and the market economy.
in writing. - almost every day, the media reports on the tragic situation of the syrian people at home and in exile. poles have fought for independence many times in their history, and i understand the aspirations of the syrians to live in a free and democratic country. the situation of syrian refugees is also dramatic. according to the united nations, over a million people have fled violence in neighboring turkey, jordan, and lebanon alone, about three quarters of them women and children. syrian forces have effectively impeded the access and crossing of the border by the civilian population, and this has been done in complete disregard of basic humanitarian standards and principles. the report by human rights watch, which found that the regime had mined the borders with jordan and turkey, clearly exposes the drama of the conflict. refugee camps are also not the promised land for those who live there because of overcrowding, poor sanitation, and the alarming reports of violence, rape, and trafficking in women. i therefore fully supported the report by the high representative catherine ashton and appeal to the international community, which is committed to respecting human rights, to take decisive action to stabilise the situation in syria, including by guaranteeing peace and respect for human dignity principles on which the european union is founded.
in writing. - i am deeply concerned about the situation in syria, which is deteriorating continuously due to the conflict which has been ravaging the country for over two years and which is unfortunately still intensifying. the exodus of syrian refugees is still gathering pace. a large proportion of the civilian population in syria has been forced to leave their homes and seek refuge in neighbouring countries. the unhcr has registered over 1.2 million refugees in the region, but expects this number to rise to over 6 million by the end of 2013. i condemn the brutality and atrocities committed against the civilian population by the syrian regime. however, there is grave concern about the widespread and systematic violations of human rights and possible crimes against humanity that are being condoned or perpetrated by the syrian authorities, army, security forces and associated militias. i would also like to highlight the tragic situation of millions of syrian christians who are forced to flee or wait to die at the hands of islamic radicals. i call on president assad and his regime to step down immediately to allow for a peaceful and democratic transition in this country that involves all parties.
in writing. - my speech was inspired by a conversation with a young man who pointed out that we in the eu are not doing enough to address the humanitarian situation in syria. the country's two-year civil war has been taking its toll on the civilian population. figures from the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees show that the number of people who have fled syria's borders has already exceeded one million, or 5% of the country's population in 2010. it is important to note that the majority of refugees are women and children. the aid provided to refugees by lebanon, jordan, iraq, turkey and egypt should be appreciated. these countries are therefore facing increasing expenditure. it's important to remember that it's not the cost of building the camps that's the main cost, but the cost of maintaining a large population over a long period of time. this situation also entails indirect costs through higher prices for food, water and housing. it's also a burden on the education and health systems. the aid given by these countries is all the more appreciated. the european union and the member states should therefore continue to help organise humanitarian aid. supporting people seeking refuge from war remains our moral obligation.
in writing. - syria today is a ticking time bomb. the bombshell of terrorism and radical islam. the resolutions we are discussing do not take this into account. they do not point to the tragedy of thousands of christians being driven out of syria by islamic rebels operating under the umbrella of the free syrian army. they fail to see the failure of the eu's international policy towards syria. unilateral condemnation of the assad regime bloody but providing stable peace among different faiths is a mistake. the situation is more complicated than that. as regards humanitarian aid, i have long called for the establishment of a demilitarised zone in syria, where aid to internally displaced persons can be provided in peace. such zones spread across borders could stem the flow of refugees. of course, their creation must be the result of bilateral negotiations between the government and the rebels.
in writing. - the issue of the return of property by countries undergoing the transformations initiated by the arab spring is of major political importance in the eu's relations with its southern neighbours. the return of property can make a significant contribution to economic recovery and will also represent a desire to prevent impunity for those involved in corruption and money laundering. the new legislative framework adopted by the council on 26 november 2012 allows eu member states to release frozen assets to the egyptian and tunisian authorities and facilitates the exchange of information between eu member states and competent authorities.
in writing. − polish companies working in syria in the extraction of gas and oil have suffered huge losses, as have construction companies that have lost equipment in egypt, in addition to the agreed salary. the return of property can make a significant contribution to economic recovery and will also represent a desire to prevent impunity for those involved in corruption and money laundering. the new legislative framework adopted by the council on 26 november 2012 allows eu member states to release frozen assets to the egyptian and tunisian authorities and facilitates the exchange of information between eu member states and competent authorities. this is an important step towards the restoration of normal trade.
in writing. − there are various concerns and recommendations that this resolution entails which are significant to the progress of bosnia and herzegovina. i agree with the need for a united voice among the country’s leaders when they work with the eu special representative so that the country can move forward and not fall behind its neighbours. additionally, the recommended reforms to the political conditions are essential for positive progress in the country. this report effectively emphasises the need for a resolution on the progress within bosnia and herzegovina. i concur with the rapporteur charles tannock’s statement about how the prospect of eu membership in the western balkans will drive forward reforms and promote peaceful democracy. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the progress of bosnia and herzegovina towards european union integration and the resolution by mrs pack. the country's lack of progress on integration is rightly worrying. the main concern is the continuing political instability, which is having a negative impact on the country's economic situation and is slowing down the implementation of the necessary reforms. i believe that bosnia and herzegovina should pay particular attention to the problem of high unemployment, especially among young people and women. the labour market needs to be modernised and business conditions, especially for smes, created. this requires coordination and cooperation between national and local authorities and the involvement of the social partners. i hope that the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina will step up their efforts in this direction, not only to make progress on the path to integration, but above all to improve the socioeconomic situation of their citizens.
in writing. - bosnia and herzegovina's progress towards accession should be assessed in the light of the country's complex situation. the european union must be aware of these difficulties. however, this requires a particular consistency and determination in enforcing the membership requirements, as this is the only way to eliminate conflicts on a lasting basis. the union should also support initiatives promoting cooperation, especially at local and regional level, where such cooperation may be easier to achieve than at federal level. it should help that the desire to join the union is a factor that unites the people of a country. in recent years, bosnia and herzegovina has made progress in aligning its legislation with that of the union and in economic reforms. hopefully, it will not be long before the balkan states, divided by their long-distance war, are joined in lasting cooperation within the union. the foundations of the eu system are not so much legal provisions but a culture of respect for ethnic and religious diversity and cooperation across the divide.
in writing. − bosnia and herzegovina has not yet been granted candidate status, despite negotiations launched in 2005. the key for bosnia and herzegovina is constitutional reform transforming the country into a functioning democracy. the integration process is hampered by political instability, corruption, ethnic divisions, high crime and mafia structures, and economic backwardness. in addition, there is no unified position among political leaders on eu integration.
mr. chairman, please! macedonia is ready to open pre-accession negotiations. the efforts of the authorities to prepare the country for this process should be considered satisfactory. there is also a systematic improvement. these measures are part of the community's strategy of enlargement to include all the balkan countries, which is in the community's unquestioned interest. i therefore regret that the european council has failed to reach agreement on this matter for the fourth time. in recent years, macedonia has been successful in combating organised crime, has been active in improving relations with its neighbours and has made progress in reforming its public administration and the judiciary. clear criteria for the funding of political parties have been introduced. the country maintains macroeconomic stability, and extensive investment is being made in transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure. the eu mediated the recent political crisis. some issues, such as the case of the archbishop of ohrid, still need to be clarified. but i'm hoping for a lasting agreement. i support macedonia's efforts to join the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. macedonia has received positive assessments in many different areas of its country, and this shows its readiness for negotiations on accession to the eu. look in more detail, it has shown that it fulfils the political criteria of the eu. it displays improvements in its economy. it shows positive changes in its civil society. those are some of the entities that were included in the positive assessment and work in favour of the country. in addition, i believe accession to the eu will lead to more reforms and developments within the country. the country has proved that it deserves the negotiations for membership; therefore, i fully support the resolution’s concern about the european council’s decision not to open the negotiations. the conflict between macedonia and greece needs to be resolved.
in writing. - as a member of the committee on employment and social affairs, i voted in favour of the report on the progress of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and the resolution drawn up by mr howitta. low employment is a problem that is now all over europe. in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, the unemployment rate in 2012 was 31,6%. women and youths are the worst affected. i would like to congratulate the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on the development of a youth employment plan based on the 'decent work programme' prepared by the international labour organisation. i hope that the successful implementation of this plan will lead to an increase in employment for young people. i also hope that the implementation of the plan will provide the impetus for further reforms in the areas of social policy and employment, which the former yugoslav republic of macedonia so badly needs. i wish the government success in planning and implementing reforms and a speedy start to accession talks with the european union.
in writing. − i support the integration of macedonia into the european union, as i am convinced that the opening of negotiations can be both an effective instrument and a stimulus for further reforms, improve the internal situation, facilitate dialogue between ethnic groups and encourage good relations with neighbours. the progress made by macedonia in various areas (e.g. rule of law, economic development, neighbourhood relations, judiciary, human rights) is commendable. however, there are concerns about police brutality against citizens, as well as poor services for homeless children, the disabled, victims of domestic violence, trafficking, etc. the unemployment rate, which remains high, and the lack of a professionally functioning media remain a major problem.
in writing. − for the fourth year in a row, the european council has decided not to open accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom). the reason was a dispute between greece and fyrom, because greece had vetoed the name "macedonia" which fyrom plans to use officially. a solution satisfactory to all parties is sought. to this end, the proposal of the enlargement commissioner for a trilateral meeting between skopje, athens and brussels was adopted. this initiative could help to revive the un negotiations. a proposal to change the perception of the fyrom region not as the western balkans but as south-eastern europe could help in this effort.
the united states is a strategic political partner of europe and its economic relations are already highly integrated. both of these entities produce half of the world's gdp. i consider that closer ties through increased trade and investment are crucial for the economies of the member states. this is particularly important in the face of competition from, say, the growing economic power of china. in the negotiation process, it is worth paying attention to consumer protection issues, as consumer protection laws still vary from one country to another. for example, the production of genetically modified organisms should be strictly limited in the interests of public health. a major achievement would be to improve transport on a sustainable basis, leading to a reduction in the cost of air travel. i also call for the abolition of the visa requirement for citizens of all community countries, including my own poland. i hope that the comprehensive trade and investment agreement will open up wide mutual markets and contribute to job creation and economic recovery.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i believe the report successfully justified its aims in the resolution of trade and investment negotiations between the eu and the us, showing the advantages that will result. this agreement will have a huge impact, and it is crucial that it receives comprehensive negotiations.
in writing. − in times of crisis, close economic cooperation is particularly important it can help to rebuild the world economy and overcome the global crisis. the potential for eu-us economic and trade cooperation is considered to be enormous. we hope that this cooperation will help to create more jobs and stimulate economic growth in europe as well. the need for a deep trade and investment agreement with the us, as only this will allow both workers and consumers, as well as eu companies, including especially smes, to benefit.
in writing. - the european parliament and the council have agreed to the adoption of a new resolution on the situation in the middle east. unlocking the untapped potential of a truly integrated transatlantic market is essential for the eu and the us to maximise job creation and to stimulate lasting, strong and sustainable growth potential. this is particularly relevant now, given the ongoing economic crisis, the state of financial markets and financial conditions, the high level of public debt, high unemployment rates and low growth prospects on both sides, and the benefits that can be achieved by a coordinated approach to these common challenges.
in writing. − the eu and the us are the world's two largest trading and investment actors, accounting for nearly half of global gdp and one third of global trade. with the global economy facing new challenges, it is necessary to reaffirm the strategic importance of the eu-us economic relationship and to define a common approach to trade, investment and the standards and regulations necessary to achieve common objectives. the intensification of the work of the transatlantic economic council would contribute to closer transatlantic cooperation in standard setting and the introduction of new technologies to the market. the creation of a transatlantic trade and investment partnership goes beyond bilateral trade agreements and therefore requires the involvement of all stakeholders at every stage of the negotiations.
in writing. − as a member of the parliament's delegation for eu-us relations, i welcome another interesting and necessary document regulating these relations. the eu and the us are the world's two largest trading and investment actors, accounting together for almost half of global gdp and one third of global trade. with the global economy facing new challenges, it is necessary to reaffirm the strategic importance of the eu-us economic relationship and to define within it a common approach to trade, investment and the standards and regulations necessary to achieve common objectives. the creation of a transatlantic trade and investment partnership goes beyond bilateral trade agreements and therefore requires the involvement of all stakeholders at every stage of the negotiations.
in writing. − after reviewing the efforts of openness and reform by myanmar/burma to the question of labour, i believe that its reinstatement to the gsp scheme is appropriate. the country has shown a serious response to the problem and made clear attempts toward its eradication. regulation no 552/97 says that the temporarily withdrawal from access to the gsp tariff preferences shall come to an end as soon as the commission report concludes that the practices that caused the withdrawal no longer exist. in my opinion, burma falls under that rule of the regulation and should be given the opportunity to be reinstated. however, i expect progress in burma to remain under surveillance to assure that it is stable and enduring. thus, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − on 24 april 2013, more than 1,100 people were killed and around 2,500 injured in the collapse of a garment factory building at the rana plaza complex in dhaka, bangladesh. it was found that the complex was built illegally and the workers were forced to work in dangerous conditions. urgent action is therefore needed to improve the implementation of the ilo's core labour standards and to increase the respect of the principle of corporate social responsibility by multinational clothing retailers. the commission was called upon to ensure strict compliance with all legal obligations, in particular international standards and regulations in the fields of human rights, labour law and environmental protection.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we had a debate in the european parliament, in this building, five months ago, in december, where the main defendant was the world's largest democracy -- india. and i have the impression that there is a double standard in our parliament, that very often the countries that systematically violate human rights, that use brutal state apparatus for violence, are not charged, and often it is more convenient to put countries that are clearly democratic in their regions of the world in the dock. and i think in the context of india, we can talk about this case, where the accused is a country that is certainly much more democratic than a number of other countries that we don't talk about or hardly talk about. we're talking about a verdict in a violent terrorist attack. it is worth recalling the reason for this judgment. it is absolutely important in the context of what we are talking about in this resolution that it is difficult to predict the consequences of this judgment, but it is very easy to predict what the consequences of this resolution will be for the relations of the european union with its strategic partner, india. this strategic partner is once again, for the second time in less than six months, the target of our attack. the situation in which our democratic parliament, which has been the model of democracy for many countries and communities around the world, is once again attacking the world's largest democracy with violence is a paradox. compared with other countries, india is characterized by diversity, relative tolerance, increasing prosperity, and democracy. in such a situation, will india look for an ally other than the west in the broad sense, including the european union? i think that talking about this sentence while last weekend, next door, in balochistan, pakistan where torture and murder are used permanently opposition politicians were shot, is a misunderstanding. enough of this attack!
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? on 9 february 2013, mohammad afzal guru, the mastermind of the 2001 indian parliament attack that killed nine people, was executed in tihar jail, india. the president of india has rejected the request for a pardon. the execution was carried out in secret, and even the closest family members of the condemned were not informed of the execution date. according to amnesty international, at least 679 new death sentences were carried out in the asia-pacific region in 2012. the death penalty is still used in 43 countries, including india, which committed to a moratorium on the death penalty in 2004. given the strong commitment of the union to work towards the abolition of the death penalty in line with the resolutions adopted by the un general assembly in 2008, we must condemn the actions of the government of india and neighbouring countries, calling on them to immediately introduce a permanent moratorium on executions with a view to abolishing the death penalty in the near future. the death penalty is barbaric, inhuman, a violation of the right to life, and should not be used in the 21st century.
mohammad afzal guru was charged with aiding and abetting the attack on the parliament in new delhi on 13 december 2001 and sentenced to death under the prevention of terrorism act passed in march 2002, three months after the attack. he spent over 10 years on death row. after his appeal for clemency was rejected, he was executed in secret on february 9th of this year. news of the execution reached the family two days later. another 1,455 prisoners are awaiting execution. the total abolition of the death penalty is one of the main objectives of the eu's human rights policy, and we therefore call on the indian authorities to establish a permanent moratorium on the use of the death penalty and to abolish it in the near future. we call for international standards to be respected in the protection of human rights in criminal proceedings and for the accused to be given a fair trial.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mohammad afzal guru was convicted by a court of law for his involvement in a brutal terrorist attack. he attacked the heart of the country, the heart of india, the parliament. nine people were killed in that attack. since then, there have been many more such attacks around the world, and the last few hours in london show that terrorism continues to spread. therefore, i believe that the punishment that was given to mohammad afzal guru in india was commensurate with his crime. india is showing that it is an ally of the european union in the fight against terrorism. they can be an example to other countries in the region who not only do not respond, but on the contrary support the terrorists. i believe we should support india in its fight against terrorism, which, as the last few hours have shown, unfortunately knows no borders. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).)
yes, my friend! but i must tell you that the majority of poles are reacting in a very firm and concrete way. where it turns out that people are only human in form, not in behavior and character, we should put a damper on such bestial behavior, even in extreme ways. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
the question of the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr. ambassador, do you think the death penalty should be applied selectively: to terrorists - yes, and to people who commit other bestial crimes, but not in the context of terrorism, it should not be applied? or do you think the death penalty should be used at all? do you also justify the murder and terror and torture that is used in guantanamo against terrorists or alleged terrorists just because they are terrorists?
answer the question by raising the blue card. i believe that the death penalty should be used where the perpetrators of such acts are not characterized in any way by the higher feelings that are inherent in humans. but when it comes to killing innocent people who have done nothing wrong, i am absolutely against it, whether it's killing unborn children or killing people who don't deserve to be killed.
mr. chairman, please! once again, we are witnessing disturbing events that have been triggered by intolerance and rule breaking and that have led to another conflict on the india-pakistan border. the execution of mohammad afsal guru, who was convicted of being an accessory to the terrorist attack on the indian parliament in december 2001, has triggered a violent escalation of protests in the muslim-majority kashmir valley. was that really necessary? unfortunately, the indian authorities have not learned any lessons from what has happened before. the execution of the death penalty itself is a violation of human rights and freedoms. in this situation, the union should not remain silent but act, expressing its discontent and sending a message to the whole world that every human injury breeds evil and aggression, often against innocent people, and that failure to pursue peaceful action will always fuel war.
mr. chairman, please! i would not want this sensational, individual case to become the cause or the reason for an attack on first india, secondly the death penalty as such, because - what mr preda said - for the second time in a few months, we in our parliament very strongly condemn india, which, as you have emphasized, is the largest democracy in the world. it's worth respecting, respecting their institutional arrangements. and that's the first thing to do is to accept that this is the largest democracy, especially in that part of the world, and to appreciate that. and secondly, let this sensational issue that we are discussing today not be a pretext to attack the death penalty, because the death penalty problem is a philosophical problem. there are some in the country who are against this punishment, and i can understand that position, and there are some of us who are in favor of this punishment, and for that reason, it is worth understanding our own reasons. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
the question of the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it's not like some of us are for the death penalty and some of us are against it. the conditions for joining the european union were to accept certain values and we agreed that the death penalty should not exist in the european union. we voted in a referendum that we want to be part of a union of states that doesn't recognize the death penalty, so you can't disrespect democracy. here in the european parliament and in the european union, we do not recognise the death penalty, it is a barbaric practice.
answer the question by raising the blue card. unfortunately, you'll have to accept the fact that i, for example, am a supporter of the death penalty. as far as i know, india is not applying for membership in the european union. so, like the united states, they may have the death penalty in their legal system as the most effective deterrent to future murder or homicide. and this means that the problem of capital punishment, which europe and the world have been dealing with for thousands of years, remains a philosophical problem. i respect your opinion on this matter and i respect that you think this is a barbaric form of punishment. i also ask that you accept people like me who believe that the death penalty is the most effective deterrent, the preservation of human existence.
the question of the blue card. thank you, mr. ambassador, for accepting your "blue card". you're right to say that there is no empirical evidence that the death penalty is the most deterrent or not, because there are no laboratory conditions in which we can say that. but would you agree with the logical conclusion that a greater punishment is more deterrent than a lesser punishment? and if so, would you agree that the ultimate punishment, the death penalty, is the most deterrent? would you agree with that logical sequence of statements?
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. that's a point on which i think we can reach consensus in this room. this is a reference to what mrs geringer de oedenberg said in the previous debate about what we agreed in the referenda. we did indeed agree in the referenda that the european union would defend human rights, defend democracy, defend the rights of the opposition, and mrs ingabire's case is a classic example of the violation of these rights. and here, indeed, the european union should speak with one voice and demand not only the revision of the judgment but also the admission of all those who were not admitted to this trial, because this trial violated all the principles of law, the principles of judicial procedure and the fundamental rights of the opposition to function. on this matter, we should all be united and unanimous in this chamber.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? in some areas, rwanda and its authorities have been successful. unfortunately, there are also areas that require major adjustment. mrs. ingabire's case is a very clear example of what needs to change in rwanda. the judiciary should be independent and free from political pressure. the memory of the genocide should not lead to an artificial and administratively enforced unity. authentic democracy must allow for the existence of a real opposition and respect the rights of minorities. freedom of speech should be guaranteed, and human rights cannot be just an empty declaration. we demand that ms. ingabire's trial be conducted in accordance with international standards. we call on the rwandan authorities to stop the persecution of political activists, journalists and human rights defenders. only when these conditions are met will rwanda be able to take full pride in its achievements in other fields.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. mrs. ingabire did nothing wrong, she just wanted to pursue her dreams, dreams of a normal state, of a normal democracy, of women's rights and other basic freedoms and basic values. unfortunately, she was convicted in a bizarre trial in which some witnesses testified that they knew about the falsification and fabrication of evidence by the secret services. this is, unfortunately, further proof that rwanda is a country very far from democratic values, from normal democracy. we must of course appeal to the rwandan authorities to change their behaviour, to allow the opposition to operate in a normal way. but we must also ask the high representative, as members of parliament, to make the same appeal in all her talks with the representatives of the rwandan authorities.
mr. chairman, please! i support the motion for a resolution in defence of mrs ingabire, who has focused her political activities on the fight for the rule of law, freedom of political association and the empowerment of women in rwanda. i would like to point out a contradiction. we conclude in this resolution the entire catalogue of the failings of the rwandan authorities that mrs ingabire was convicted in a dishonest trial, that she was not allowed to stand in the presidential elections, that no opposition parties were registered, and yet in paragraph 5 of our resolution we write that the european parliament stresses that it respects the independence of the rwandan judicial system, but .... let's make a decision! let the law always be the law, and justice always be justice. if there was an independent judiciary, ms. ingabire would be registered, parties would function legally in a democracy - if there were one - and there would be no unfair trials. so, except for that unfortunate wording, i support the whole resolution.
the international community's protest against the rwandan authorities' attitude towards ms victoire ingabire should be understood. this attitude is certainly contrary to the basic standards which the european union and parliament should always be concerned about. but on the other hand, we have to remember -- and we often forget this -- that the world, this rich world, including the european union, was silent when there was a huge genocide in rwanda, when almost a million people were murdered and hundreds of thousands of women were raped. i think that today's vote is a sort of a vote of conscience, also for the european parliament and the european union, which did not speak out strongly enough at the time, despite the international community's reaction in yugoslavia, in afghanistan, in iraq and, more recently, the french military in mali. when hundreds of thousands of people were being murdered, the world was silent, so it's good that today it's speaking out.
in writing. in today's resolution we are forced to address the disturbing information coming to us from rwanda. the leader of the opposition there, the world-renowned and respected democracy activist victoire ingabire umuhoza, has been sentenced to eight years in prison for treason. she was also found guilty of downplaying the 1994 rwandan genocide. ingabire was not present at the sentencing, boycotting the trial because of its politicization. it should be recalled that the accused has been in prison since 2010, when she was arrested shortly after announcing her decision to run for the presidential elections. other rwandan opposition politicians déogratias mushayidi and bernard ntaganda are also imprisoned with her. they also tried to end the violence in the country by promoting dialogue and reconciliation. although rwanda has experienced a period of stability since the genocide, it is still struggling to implement reforms to strengthen democracy and the rule of law. i am deeply convinced that the european parliament should express its concern at the judicial proceedings against victoire ingabire, which do not meet international standards of transparency and independence. moreover, it is necessary to remind the rwandan authorities that the european union is closely monitoring their actions and that the current case is a test case for the democratization process in the country.
mr. chairman, please! when we started working for the special commission on combating organized crime, we knew that the issues we would be dealing with would be extremely complex and not the easiest ones. but i think that no one could have anticipated the scale of the impact of criminal activity on the functioning of the budgets of the member states and the european union. the crim mid-term report is an attempt to collect and identify the full range of problems in this area. the work on this report has been extremely difficult and i would like to thank mr iacolino for his enormous effort and, above all, for his exemplary cooperation with the other members. the report is so extensive that it is difficult to cover all the possible aspects of organised crime and corruption. we therefore need to identify and identify those that are most important and to find those areas where we can improve the functioning of existing institutions and mechanisms. in this context, i welcome the european commission's plan to combat smuggling of tobacco products, which was announced last week. this problem was also noted in the work of the crim committee and we talked about it during one of the hearings. i would also like to stress that perhaps in no other area are the speed and efficiency of the legislative and executive powers so necessary as in the fight against organised crime.
in writing. organised crime remains a major problem in europe. its global nature and scope require global measures. one of them was the creation of the crim committee. its mandate should also be extended for the next term of office, this time as a standing committee. this is all the more so as, according to socta, there were 3600 organised crime groups operating in europe in 2012. in discussing the problem of organized crime, i'd like to focus today on three key issues. firstly, the fight against trafficking in human beings and trafficking in organs. the numbers are staggering. this phenomenon brings in profits of 25 billion euros. from the eastern border of the union to the atlantic, all the countries of the european community are affected by this nightmare. 264,000 people become victims of sexual abuse every year. in times of crisis, the industrial use of free labour is growing rapidly. combating these phenomena requires a joint effort and increased investment. another important element is drug crime. it provides the biggest profits to organized crime groups. this is an international procedure. to stop it, we need stronger border controls and common eu drug laws. it is particularly important to stop smuggling and to monitor closely the trade in drug precursors. in the last paragraph of my speech, i would like to focus on the fight against organized economic crime. the trade in counterfeit goods, fraud, money laundering are the nightmare of today's markets. their actions cost businesses over $870 billion a year.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the current economic climate and in the context of deficit reduction policies, social investment is also crucial. i think that initiatives to increase and better, more effectively use the funds to fight poverty and unemployment are most justified. activities to improve the living conditions of children by providing them with better development and educational opportunities are of particular importance. according to eurostat, 27% of children in the european union are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. however, the situation in some countries, especially in central and eastern europe, is even more alarming. access to early childhood care and education is dramatically low. this is especially important because investing in a young person, a small person, is the most effective and brings tremendous benefits in the future. i would like to thank mrs berès for seeing the problem in a social context, in a situation where the whole discussion is dominated by economics and the economy.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. i take the floor as the rapporteur for the european regional development fund. i would like to remind you that one of the objectives of the european union is socioeconomic and territorial cohesion. we try to make sure that the instruments you use are compatible. when we discuss the regional development fund, we also draw attention to the very important - as the commissioner said - social investment. we should instead aim for an integrated approach and, in this context, we should seriously consider whether a rigid allocation of funds is the right solution for the present or whether we should concentrate on social investments, also from other funds. i think the idea of social investment requires a more flexible approach.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i believe that this is an extremely important discussion because the situation in the european union is indeed serious. the impact of this long financial and economic crisis is not simply a high level of unemployment and an increasing risk of poverty in many eu member states. due to the deep, long and complex eurozone crisis, we are experiencing a dangerous polarisation in the eu between countries with relative stability and, on the other hand, countries facing ‘social emergency’, to quote an expression the commission president, mr barroso, has used more than once in this chamber. commission reports – particularly the employment and social development reports, and also the quarterly reports – give a good and reliable picture of these developments. we do not only learn from statistics, however; we also learn from field visits. i, and many of my colleagues, regularly visit countries, regions, cities, villages, and the ‘ghettos’ where many poor and unemployed people live. we host the meeting of people experiencing poverty, which will be held again in brussels later this month, and we also regularly organise the european platform against poverty and social exclusion, which brings together civil society actors – ngos – and government representatives to discuss what needs to be done to address the current situation and also to reach our europe 2020 targets. many of the questions which have been raised in this discussion cannot be answered purely in the context of the social investment package because they relate to social security and the white paper on pensions, or to the social dimension of the economic and monetary union – on which there have been, will be and need to be more discussions – or because they are of a budgetary nature and should be discussed in connection with the multiannual financial framework and the national budgets. i believe that the social investment package does exactly what many members of the parliament have been hoping for, by defending the european social model and emphasising that the european social model should not be blamed for the current financial and economic crisis in the eu. this is also a time when we need to discuss how to modernise the welfare models of the eu and how to make it more resilient in order to ensure that people can lead the life that they want to and which they deserve. we are of the conviction that the best welfare models in the eu can actually reconcile good economic performance and a strong welfare state. that is an asset. it is also an opportunity for all eu member states to modernise their welfare systems and benefit structures to introduce greater efficiency and effectiveness. the social investment package actually provides a very good comparative analysis by which to demonstrate that there are some welfare systems in the eu which create more per euro of social spending and that, with a more forward-looking approach, we can improve the functioning of national welfare states. at the same time, however, we have to respect the diversity of these systems, because very often they are linked to national traditions and culture. questions have been asked, particularly by ms bastos, about how we can provide support, especially in these times of crisis. the answer is that we provide support, in particular, through the european social fund and other financial instruments. these have been reprogrammed in many countries in order to respond better and more quickly. we have discussed on a number of occasions, not only in the context of social services in greece but also in other countries, how to adjust in a flexible way to the need to continue to provide the social services which are so important for people experiencing hardship at this time. the new youth employment initiative also needs to be mentioned because such measures, and particularly the youth guarantee which the commission proposed, are an excellent example of social investment and of short-term spending which brings very clear returns in the long run and also results in savings. it is true that other eu financial instruments also contribute to reducing poverty and to social investment in broader terms, but the esf is the instrument which invests directly in people, in human capital, which is why we have to ensure that the european social fund receives secure and adequate funding in order to fulfil the role it has to play in creating employment and social inclusion. ms regner asked a question about governance, and in particular how we intend to strengthen control. what we particularly want to strengthen at this stage is monitoring and also the capacity to provide support. action, in most of the cases which ms lambert asked about, has to be taken at member state level, but also at regional level, with the participation of civil society. however, the eu has to support such action with whatever instruments we have, whether they are instruments of governance – providing recommendations, policy coordination, shared analysis and shared understanding – or the financial instruments available to us, in other words not only the esf, but also other financial instruments from the eu budget. all this needs to be better organised and better coordinated in the future in order to achieve better results. of course, these results will not be achieved purely by relying on social policies. i agree with those who emphasised in the discussion that the monetary union and of course the crisis response also need to be looked at, to see how a europe demonstrating greater solidarity could emerge from the current crisis finally, let me mention that i am particularly grateful not only to the european parliament and all those who encouraged the commission to bring forward the social investment package, but also to the cyprus presidency, which launched this process, and the irish presidency, which has already staged several conferences both on the package as a whole and various aspects of it, for example, homelessness. we will also ensure that the forthcoming epsco council will discuss the social investment package. thank you for your participation in this discussion. we will certainly rely on parliament in the future for the implementation as well.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like first to thank the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) and in particular the rapporteur mr creutzmann for his constructive approach during the negotiation process. the enforcement of intellectual property rights, or ipr, by customs is a top priority for the commission and also for this house. innovation and creativity are the engines of our economy. it is important to give rights owners the certainty that the fruits of their inventions will be protected. customs play a crucial role in stopping goods which infringe ipr from reaching the eu market. i am very happy that parliament, the council and the commission have reached agreement on a new regulation on the customs enforcement of ipr. let me recall the main benefit that this regulation will bring. firstly, we are extending the scope of intellectual property rights to be enforced at the borders. for example, counterfeit goods sent in small consignments to private persons are now covered. this is very important if we consider the huge rise in postal traffic due to internet sales. fake products carrying the sign of a well-known trade mark will also be blocked. this will keep the eu at the forefront of ipr protection at its borders. secondly, the regulation clarifies procedures, for instance by introducing a single request that will cover the whole of the eu. it simplifies the work of customs while respecting the rights of traders and of right-holders by streamlining notifications and communication with the various people involved. these changes, coupled with the new tools created to deal with requests from right-holders, such as the creation of a central electronic database, will make customs more efficient in the fight against counterfeiting. finally, the regulation addresses the specific problems we encountered in the past with regard to access to medicines. this has been a particularly sensitive matter, but i am confident that it is now definitely settled. to conclude, today’s agreement will strengthen the legal framework and simplify administrative procedures for the vital work that customs does to protect intellectual property rights. in doing so, it will help safeguard the interests of our legitimate traders and protect the competitiveness of our economy, which relies more and more on innovation and intellectual property. this new regulation is not just good for customs, it is good for our businesses and for our citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. counterfeiting is a huge loss on the internal market. the business owners whose products are counterfeited suffer as do the consumers whose health and safety are threatened by such products, since not only consumer goods such as clothing but also medicines, for example, are counterfeited. many of these products enter the union market from third countries, which is why the importance of border security is so important. customs officers are the most effective in blocking the flow of such products, but they must have the appropriate legal instruments to do so. the regulation will make the enforcement of existing rules more effective, simplify procedures and thus better protect traders and consumers. importantly, these new rules do not change anything about the protection of intellectual property and do not apply to non-commercial products carried by tourists in their luggage. the enforcement of intellectual property rights at the border by customs authorities is complementary to the enforcement of those rules in the internal market in general and to other initiatives in this field. without better enforcement of these rules, we have a kind of loophole that causes such huge losses, because we are talking about losses of up to 250 billion euros a year - a significant amount for business and the internal market. the new enforcement rules will improve the work of customs officers and are an important element in the creation of a well-functioning internal market.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking mr creutzmann for his contribution to the preparation of this report, which is a step towards more effective enforcement of intellectual property rights, the protection necessary to safeguard the interests of inventors, creators and, above all, consumers. the proper regulation of this matter will guarantee the high quality of the products made available. i hope that the members who question the need to strengthen the protection of property rights will also support a report whose record is beneficial to european consumers. in recent years, the number of shipments detained on suspicion of abuse of property rights has increased. the constant flow of counterfeit goods into european markets causes huge losses for domestic producers, which translates into rising unemployment. the trade in counterfeit medical products is particularly dangerous, accounting for a quarter of the documented infringements. similarly, counterfeit food and cosmetics pose a health risk. the need to strengthen protection focusing on the safety of citizens cannot be called into question. customs authorities with limited resources should not, however, be subject to excessive burdens that could paralyse their functioning. it should be left to them to determine whether there has been an infringement of property rights under national law. however, modern risk management technologies are worth focusing on, as current control methods are often not sufficient. i am glad that this request has been accepted by the council.
mr. chairman, please! in europe, the political and economic crisis is compounded by a decline in the moral values that have been safeguarded by centuries of christian heritage. as a result, basic human rights are being renamed, their universal meaning distorted in the name of modern-day progress. the right to dignity is the unconditional right of every human being. the hypocritical justification of euthanasia under the slogan 'the right to a dignified death', abortion in the context of the false promotion of women's rights, the growing process of depreciation of the family, including the denial of the fundamental relationship between a woman and a man for its functioning, and the adoption of children by homosexual couples are widely promoted among the public. i therefore wish to call for a genuine european dimension of fundamental human rights, based on the christian ethos and centuries-old tradition.
mr. chairman, please! there is no doubt that affordable housing is one of the major challenges facing member states today. this report discusses a number of aspects of this problem. i wanted to draw attention to one of them. without free access to affordable housing, it is difficult to expect increased mobility, not only within the single market but also within individual member states. few people choose to emigrate for work without the assurance of a decent living. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that social housing should not be seen as just another social expenditure but as a necessary investment to stimulate the market. today, the market is unable to meet this demand. investment in affordable housing is therefore a necessary condition for the increased mobility within the union, which is so important for stimulating the european economy. on the other hand, however, it cannot be expected that the state will guarantee housing to every citizen. europe couldn't afford it even in its heyday, so it's hard to ask for it in a time of crisis. so i find it difficult to agree that the right to housing should be written into the fundamental law.
in writing. women's mobility in the context of employment and education is one of the elements that help women to improve their living conditions. this is particularly important in the face of the danger of rising unemployment among women and the continued widespread discrimination by employers against women in terms of lower pay compared to men for the same work in the same positions. unemployment and gender pay discrimination are putting a significant proportion of women across europe at increased risk of poverty and social exclusion for economic reasons. it is therefore important to support mechanisms for the mobility of women and to facilitate their change of work and residence. participation in vocational training and retraining, as well as assistance in social integration in the new place of residence, are just some of the elements that promote women's mobility, very often forced by the need to improve working and employment conditions. i therefore call on the commission, in consultation with the member states, to develop a programme to help women who have moved in search of better living and working conditions to take advantage of the opportunities for further education and thus to integrate more quickly into the host country's society.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i'm not going to let you get away with this. the starting point for my own-initiative report on legal aid in crossborder civil and commercial matters was the report presented last year by the european commission on the implementation and application of the 2003 directive. ten years have passed since the entry into force of this document and the transposition of the directive into national systems seems to have been successful. of course, each member state has adopted slightly different solutions, but in principle the right to legal aid is now guaranteed. however, only 12% of eu citizens are aware that they are entitled to free legal aid in the event of a legal dispute in another country. if citizens and, even worse, practitioners are not aware that it is possible to apply for legal aid in a member state other than the country of nationality, then the provisions of this directive are just a slogan that looks good on paper. it is natural that the increasing mobility and harmonisation of the european market should also be reflected in an increasing number of crossborder cases. however, the number of citizens applying for legal aid under the provisions of the directive is still low, as they are not aware that they can receive free pre-trial and in-trial assistance and, due to their ignorance, waive their claims. that is why i have placed the main emphasis in my report on increasing the involvement of the european commission and the member states in a more effective information campaign. i also point out the opportunities offered by modern technologies in the area of communication and awareness-raising of the right to legal aid in cross-border disputes. i also stress the importance of the internet and portals such as ejustice in the process of providing legal aid itself. another issue i have highlighted is that i believe it is extremely important to provide comprehensive legal support to citizens. the establishment of databases of lawyers with knowledge and skills in comparative law and appropriate linguistic qualifications should ensure the appointment of lawyers competent to deal with specific cases. remember, sometimes bad advice is simply worse and more costly in its effects than no advice at all. in the following sections, i outline the steps that should be taken to facilitate procedures and improve access to legal aid. i also encourage member states to create more effective cooperation systems between public authorities and ngos to ensure citizens have wider access to legal aid and legal advice. in my view, good practice in the field of free legal advice such as university legal clinics or pro bono agencies should be widely disseminated and supported through an organised legal aid network. it is also worth highlighting the importance of member states providing access to pre-litigation assistance, including advice on alternative dispute resolution, in times of crisis and austerity. they are often less costly and more effective in civil and commercial matters. finally, i would like to express my deep concern at the trend i have observed towards a reduction in the budget allocation for free legal aid. this will deprive many people of access to justice. this will only breed frustration, mistrust and hostility of citizens towards the state system. these costs will be significantly higher than the funds that are being reduced today.
madam president! i would like to thank in particular the person who conducted the entire report. and thank you to the co-rapporteurs. ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing today with an important regulation - the regulation on food for special purposes for young children and infants. how is it different from the others? this is a regulation that will affect the health of future generations. if we left this department now, we would have to face some consequences later on -- legal consequences, but also health consequences. what does this regulation cover? first of all, it concerns the various controversial issues in the field of infant food and it is for those specific groups that require an absolutely different way of preparing food, the preparations that are used. a particular group here are premature babies and the youngest babies, premature babies with low birth weight, and there's a significant section on this. it is also important that the information should mention whether the product contains any quantities even micro quantities of pesticides, or whether it also contains gluten or lactose. it's important for these kids for health reasons. we also paid attention to nanotechnology. we know that nanotechnology can be a very good element in food production, but we have to be prepared for the fact that we have to be very careful about this new technology in the application of this particular food for special purposes.
in writing. – i would like to welcome mrs ries’ report. it was just over two years ago that we banned the use of bisphenol a in baby bottles, strengthening the use of the precautionary principle in the union in relation to our children. these new rules are one more step in this direction and are a very good start towards ensuring that our children’s health is more important than any companies’ profits. after the decision on baby bottles in 2010, i wrote a written question to the commission about the fact that bisphenol a was still used to coat the tin cans in which food products are stored, including infant formula. we were removing only one possible source of a contamination and not the largest one. sadly, the commission took no action. i hope this new regulation will lead the commission to further action, not only on labelling and the food itself, but also on the containers in between. this should not be the forgotten link in our food chain.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to start by congratulating mrs costello on her insightful report. i believe that the initiative to create this fund is a good way to achieve the poverty reduction target set by the 2020 strategy. however, care should be taken to simplify as far as possible the system for implementing and clearing the aid granted. i think that the system proposed by the commission is too elaborate, both in terms of the allocation of funds and in terms of the scope and type of support. in addition, in view of the risk of increasing poverty, i consider it important to add a relative poverty criterion to the indicators on the basis of which the allocations will be made. i agree with the rapporteur that it is crucial to base the implementation of the fund on the principle of partnership. i also believe that the effectiveness of this instrument depends on good coordination... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. inclusive development is a slogan running through both the europe 2020 document and the structural funds' target lists, which jointly implement the bulk of the european union's budget. meanwhile, the basic problem of poverty in europe remains unsolved. europe's citizens are paying a heavy price for the economic crisis, which has hit young people and single mothers hardest - these are the groups most at risk from the expansion of the poorest. the social systems of the countries most affected by the crisis have not been able to absorb the economic shock that has consequently been felt by the most vulnerable. almost 25% of the eu population is at risk of poverty or social exclusion this is unacceptable. on the one hand, the union must implement forward-looking programmes to stimulate economic growth and create jobs. however, it is clear that more and more eu citizens need emergency measures that can help in the most difficult situations. the european fund for the most deprived therefore needs strong support. not only for its very existence, but also for its high and realistic financial envelope and its wide and at the same time concentrated reach. every effort should be made to ensure that the fund effectively reaches the most deprived, including in rural areas. in addition, we need to provide potential donors with clear and favourable rules for the provision of aid, including by recognising vat eligibility. those in need in europe are demanding decisive action.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. it is not possible to protect cod stocks effectively without long-term planning. if we are to enjoy cod for a long time as fishermen or consumers, we must manage the resources effectively, which are not infinite.
in writing. − i believe that the right approach is being taken towards the proposal to amend regulation 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. one of these goals is to combine industry and science, which i think is ideal towards ensuring that this long-term plan is concrete and effective. according to the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries, regulation 1342/2008 was not successful in implementing a reduced fishing rate. this clearly underlines problems in the regulation and the need to amend it. in addition, the report approaches this problem logically by considering the viability of the fishing industry in the recovery of the cod stocks. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the long-term plan for cod stocks and cod fisheries. the report addressed the issue of finding a balance between restoring cod stocks in the north sea, the irish sea and the area west of scotland and ensuring the viability of the fisheries sector. the scientists' views were reiterated, adding that the amendments were designed to 'contribute to the recovery of cod stocks while ensuring the goodwill of the stakeholders concerned'. it was also suggested that the development of long-term plans is an interim solution, while the overall objective is to replace such plans with mixed or multi-species plans. the dodds report concluded that there was still an urgent need to improve existing plans.
in writing. − this regulation is one of the first fisheries sector acts to be brought into line with the tfeu. the solutions adopted for this regulation may affect the decision-making procedure applicable to other multiannual plans. therefore, i agree with the rapporteur on the commission's proposal to use delegated acts to align the indicators with scientific findings or the ordinary legislative procedure to make other changes to the plan.
in writing. i voted to waive the immunity of congressman jack kursky. in this case, both the member concerned and the legal affairs committee voted in favour of the waiver of immunity. in his letter, mep kurski wrote: 'i renounce the member's immunity to the european parliament and ask for a vote to remove it'. the draft decision of the european parliament, on the other hand, states that 'the alleged act has no direct, manifest connection with the performance by mr olgierd kursky of his duties as a member of the european parliament, nor does it constitute an opinion or a position taken by him in voting while he was a member of the european parliament'. this case is also further evidence that the immunity protection in poland is too broad.
in writing. − the prosecutor general of the republic of poland has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the member of the european parliament, mr jacek olgierd kurski, in connection with possible proceedings concerning an alleged road traffic offence. the alleged act is not directly connected with the exercise of the mandate of member of the european parliament. the applicant submits that the request for waiver of immunity is to allow the proceedings against mr jack olgierd kursky to be conducted and to clarify the case.
in writing. − the applicant rejected the request for waiver of the immunity of ms małgorzata handzlik on the grounds of serious procedural doubts. there is a suspicion that the case of mp margareta handzlik is a case of fumus persecutionis. the applicant therefore refused to waive the immunity.
in writing. - the applicant has argued for the waiver of the immunity of mr alvaro. it is held that there is no fumus persecutionis and that the waiver of immunity is necessary to clarify the case and to conduct the proceedings for the involuntary death and personal injury in a road traffic accident as quickly as possible.
madam president! while supporting all constructive action in the field of consumer protection, i welcome the commission's proposals for the continuation of the consumer strategy in the coming years. it is based on the need to ensure the safety of food, health, digital and many other products that are essential to everyday life. the essential condition for effective protection remains unhindered access to transparent, comprehensive and expert product information. this applies to all consumers, but is particularly relevant for older people who are more vulnerable. the key to this is to promote consumer rights at the same time. independent price comparison websites are a very good idea, but they need consistent support. i look forward to the timely and consistent implementation of these directives in the individual member states and to the commission's continuous monitoring of the effectiveness of the extension of consumer protection. it would also be useful to propose the development of a green paper for consumers to make it easier for the relevant organisations, institutions and citizens to enforce their rights.
in writing. − as a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, i pay close attention to consumer protection and safety. i am pleased that the european commission has taken a very ambitious approach to this issue and has already prepared a 'european consumer agenda' in may 2012 as part of a wider consumer policy. consumers are an important part of the internal market and, with consumer spending reaching 56% of gdp in the eu, they are, alongside small and medium-sized enterprises, the engine of the european economy. the economic crisis has eroded consumer confidence in the internal market and restoring that confidence is now one of the key objectives. we should also seek to increase consumer participation in the market, to increase consumer safety, to increase consumer awareness and to guarantee the possibility of claiming rights. i supported the report because consumers should be given due consideration. in particular, greater protection is needed in the area of food safety, as well as in the area of financial services. it is also necessary to think about particularly vulnerable consumers, such as children, and to protect them from the harmful effects of advertising promoting, for example, unhealthy food. i also believe that closer cooperation between european and national authorities and consumer organisations is necessary. the development of european consumer centres is an important task for the future. the report calls for these measures to be taken, among others, and is therefore a further step towards developing consumer policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the report effectively outlines the necessity for the reform in the european consumer policy and aligns with the treaty of the european union. this new agenda brings up to date the ecp that was out of pace with today’s society. it considers the changes that have occurred over time which include the globalisation of the market, aging population, etc. additionally, it heeds the well-being of the consumers in the eu. it aims to give more knowledge to the consumers about the products that they are purchasing so that they can make informed decision. consumer awareness and protection from the products with dangerous chemicals is essential to maintain good health among the european citizens. other entities of this report that i strongly agree with are: the importance of equality among consumers, battling food wastage, and the importance of e-commerce in terms of consumers’ access to goods.
in writing. - for decades, the protection of workers' rights has been a central political issue. in recent years, consumer protection has also gained a similar status. the report on the new european consumer programme is a multi-faceted document. of particular interest is the report's call for the creation of a financial inspectorate which would act ex officio or at the individual or collective request of consumers record infringements and be able to impose penalties on those who breach the applicable rules. in the context of the housing crisis, it is also worth noting and supporting the requirement to suspend eviction or foreclosure of encumbered property if the delay in payment is due to reasons beyond the control of the consumer, such as unemployment and the application of a moratorium on monthly payments until the consumer finds a job. it is also pleased that the report pays considerable attention to food and food waste issues. this is a serious problem that deserves to be highlighted. the report's demands to ensure the safety of the entire food chain from production to consumption should be considered reasonable. other food safety claims also merit a similar assessment. in view of the above, i have decided to support the report on the new european consumer programme.
in writing. − effective consumer protection has been a priority of european integration for many years. the eu is currently planning to adopt a new consumer strategy for 2013-2020. this issue, as well as consumer claims and consumer law issues, will be discussed by the participants. the risks to consumer interests in the electronic environment are a very topical issue. in the age of global digitalisation, this is a major problem, especially in the context of the lack of respect for the rights of consumers when they make cross-border online purchases. today, such transactions are very disadvantageous to consumers, since the goods are often not as described and contact with the seller is difficult. i am in favour of stronger enforcement of consumer rights in this area by means of consultation with the national authorities.
in writing. − this programme is of particular importance for the future of the eu economy, given the important role consumers play in the eu economy and the economic importance of consumption as a driver of economic growth in the eu countries. in particular, consumer awareness is essential, as the aim of avoiding information overload, while reducing consumer ignorance and raising consumer awareness, can have a positive impact on enforcing consumer rights and reducing the risks consumers face, inter alia, in relation to counterfeit and dangerous products. the risks associated with banking services, in particular short-term loans and investment instruments, are also an important issue. the amber gold case in poland reinforces my belief that there is a need for proper education of the public on consumer rights in the banking sector. moreover, from an economic point of view, the need to educate the staff of small and medium-sized enterprises is particularly important, so that the extent to which consumers can exercise their rights is not distorted by the ignorance of the employees of the enterprises.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr zwiefka on legal aid in civil and commercial disputes. the issue is already covered by a 2003 council directive, but it was only last year that the european commission presented its first report on its effectiveness. the problems identified were the selective application of its provisions by some member states and the low awareness among eu citizens of the legal tools available under it, and thus the lack of knowledge of their rights in the event of a dispute. i fully support the proposals to improve the system, including actions to ensure that lawyers involved in the resolution of crossborder disputes are well-versed in the language and legal system of the country in which the conflict is concerned. i also consider it appropriate to leave the party concerned the choice between the legal system applicable in the country of residence or the country of domicile. i also join the call for those states which have not yet done so to accede to the hague convention, as this would allow their citizens to benefit from legal aid in certain third countries. i therefore welcome the text of the document on legal aid in crossborder civil and commercial disputes adopted today.
in writing. − as co-rapporteur on the report on legal aid in civil and commercial litigation, i strongly support the initiative to improve council directive 2003/8/ec, which has been in force since 2004. however, i regret that the commission did not revise the directive until 2010 and sent its conclusions to parliament two years later. this means that the weaknesses of the regulation will only be analysed 10 years after its transposition. such cases of late legislative analysis should not take place in community procedures. improving access to justice in cross-border disputes by introducing a minimum of harmonisation at eu level is a very important aspect for citizens, especially those less well off, who have access to justice in other member states. however, the regulation will not have the desired effect if citizens are not properly informed about it. the commission's analysis shows that only 12% of citizens are aware of the existence of crossborder legal aid and sometimes even the judiciary is not informed. it is therefore very important to promote the project through information campaigns, training of judges and lawyers and through internet portals. the european judicial network in civil and commercial matters currently provides information on legal aid which has not been updated since july 2007. i therefore support the idea of creating an up-to-date and easy-to-use eu-wide legal aid database where citizens could search for lawyers who can deal with their cases in their own language. the commission, in cooperation with the member states, should also be responsible for promoting and organising specific training for lawyers providing legal aid services. i congratulate the rapporteur and call on the commission to continue its work to improve the eu rules in the crossborder judicial system.
in writing. − i believe that raising awareness of council directive 2003/8/ec of 27 january 2003 is a right step towards increasing the effectiveness of its implementation. i support the general aim of this report and agree with many of the initiatives that it presents. eu citizens have to be more aware of their rights and the legal aid that they can receive. they need to be informed about the policies that can help them in difficult situations. one initiative that i fully support is the effort to provide more information on internet portal websites covering access to justice. this strategy is cost-effective and aligns with the needs of today’s society. the internet has become a major factor in the lives of eu citizens and i believe that using it to increase awareness of their rights will make this directive even more successful. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − since 2003, a regulation has been in place in the european union's legal order providing free legal aid to entrepreneurs in the event of a legal dispute arising in another country. yet, only 12 percent of the european union's population are aware of this fact. the opening of internal borders has increased cross-border trade in goods. this economically advantageous feature can be hindered by disputes between traders who are not familiar with the legal systems of other eu countries. the natural conclusion is to oblige member states to intensify information campaigns on this subject so that traders are aware of the assistance they receive both before and during the proceedings. however, particular attention should be paid to simplifying the rules for access to that aid as much as possible. as integration progresses and trade within the community increases, there is a need to train lawyers to represent their clients in cross-border disputes. the document provides for the creation of databases of lawyers with the necessary skills in comparative law and language skills. in view of the objectives and assumptions of this legislation, i have decided to vote in favour of this document.
in writing. −the existing directive on ensuring access to justice for citizens who are parties to crossborder disputes, which lays down the conditions for the provision of crossborder legal aid, in particular financial aid, is not sufficiently known and therefore does not fully fulfil its task of helping eu citizens. the rapporteur supports the idea of improving the system for providing access to justice, including by creating databases of lawyers, and revising the ceilings and guidelines for the granting of legal aid.
in writing. − having regard to council directive 2003/8/ec of 27 january 2003 to facilitate access to justice in crossborder disputes by establishing minimum common rules relating to legal aid in such disputes, i support the draft in question, but would like to point out the problematic aspects of its operation. the need to raise awareness among citizens of the european union of the right to cross-border legal aid should be emphasised. information campaigns in the member states are necessary to reach lawyers and potential beneficiaries. there are also other technical issues, such as the storage of forms, the creation of a single database on the e-justice portal and, above all, the regulation of language issues. in order to ensure an adequate level of service and to verify linguistic competence, a database of lawyers with knowledge of comparative law and appropriate language skills should be created to enable the provision of cross-border legal aid (such as the find-a-lawyer platform) and linked to the e-justice portal.' in order to ensure the proper functioning of the cross-border legal aid system, it is also necessary to set up a system of language and comparative legal training, which should be co-financed by union funds. despite these aspects, the project is of great importance for the european judiciary.
in writing. - the european fight against piracy and counterfeiting has been ongoing for many years. unfortunately, dishonest 'businesses' are still coming in, especially through online sales, which have led to a 200% increase in the number of mail seizures of counterfeit goods in recent years. it is a worrying fact that as many as 69% of goods seized in 2010 were medicinal products that pose a risk to the health and life of consumers. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal for new arrangements for the enforcement of customs legislation on intellectual property rights (ipr). customs authorities are best placed to enforce them effectively at the eu's external borders and should be given sufficient powers to combat the counterfeiting wave also within the community. i support the introduction of a provision allowing the detention of goods, including those in transit, provided there is a clear risk of their entering the eu market, which on the one hand gives a specific right to detain suspicious shipments, while at the same time not blocking the import of so-called generic medicines by the community for the poorer regions of the world. the fight against counterfeits from online purchases will be facilitated by detailed records of small consignments of suspicious goods, which can now be destroyed under a simplified procedure without the need for formal judicial proceedings. such a record is a great saving of both time and money. i support the commission's initiative, but i am concerned that no european law will replace concrete solutions developed jointly with non-eu countries - in particular the strategy on iprs with such a 'counterfeiting' giant as china, which accounted for 85% of goods detained by eu customs in 2010.
in writing. − the proposed regulation aims to improve the enforcement of existing rules and indeed, by simplifying procedures or delegating appropriate powers to customs, enforcement will become more effective and thus better protect traders and consumers. it should be stressed that the new rules do not change anything in terms of intellectual property protection and do not concern non-commercial products carried by tourists in their luggage. however, they point out, for example, the need to better inform consumers about the risks they may face when buying counterfeit products and, more importantly, focus on improving the work of customs authorities. the european parliament and the council have adopted a number of amendments to the directive on the protection of personal data. the business owners whose products are counterfeited suffer, as do the consumers whose health and safety are threatened by counterfeit products, even as medicines are counterfeited. many of these counterfeit products enter the union market from third countries, which is why border security is so important. i supported the recommendation because it is the customs officers at the borders who have the best chance of blocking the entry of such products, but they must have the appropriate legal instruments to do so, which the proposed rules will ensure. the new enforcement rules will improve the work of customs officers and are an important element in the creation of a well-functioning internal market.
in writing. − trade in goods infringing intellectual property rights harms rightholders and law-abiding producers and traders. at the same time, the trade in such goods is misleading to consumers and it is therefore necessary to improve the legal framework in order to strengthen the enforcement of intellectual property rights by customs authorities and to ensure appropriate legal clarity, taking into account the changes in the economic, business and legal spheres. this will help to prevent the entry of infringing goods into the customs territory and prevent their release for commercial circulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because the regulation will enable persons to protect their intellectual property rights by submitting an application to the competent customs authorities. in addition, the regulation lays down procedures for customs authorities to act in cases of suspected infringement of intellectual property rights, which will be an important step towards reducing, inter alia, counterfeit and pirated goods. the issue that needs to be considered is the storage and destruction of infringing objects and the associated costs.
in writing. − in the vote on food for infants, young children and special foods in plenary, i voted in favour of adopting the above document. i believe that food products which are intended for this age group require particularly strict standards in their production. as we know, infants and young children are most vulnerable to allergies and diseases, so we should monitor the whole process of food production very closely. the rules currently in force in the member states need to be simplified and harmonised so as not to interfere with the proper functioning of the internal market and to provide for the same level of consumer protection throughout the union. i therefore support the idea that food labels throughout the european union should contain clear and unambiguous lists of nutrients, while also drawing attention to substances such as gluten, lactose and toxic pesticides.
in writing. − the food market in poland and worldwide is undergoing continuous improvement processes. the development of new food production technologies and storage conditions is the basis for the evolution of the world market. every year, the knowledge of healthy eating reaches a wide range of consumers. of particular interest are foods intended for infants and young children. the consumer consciousness of modern mothers demands the production of safe and good quality food. high-quality food is natural, low-processed, from controlled crops and livestock. it is a staple in the diet of infants and young children. all products from which baby food is produced are carefully tested for the content of heavy metals, fertilisers and residues of plant protection products and preservatives. manufacturers of baby food should disclose its composition on the labels. food for special medical purposes is also in high demand. these are complete foods in terms of their vitamin and nutrient content, replacing the whole-day diet. they are given as directed by your doctor. they are intended for use in patients who have difficulty digesting some of the nutrients they contain. food quality and safety are an important element affecting the health of consumers. therefore, the production of safe food should be one of the priorities of the state policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation. i believe that simplification and deregulation of directive 89/389/eec is the right way to approach this issue. the regulation agreed abolishes foods that had no scientific evidence to support a particular need for their inclusion. good examples are the growing-milks for children aged 1-3 years old and the sports food. the new regulation limits the scope to only three types of food that have to be controlled. this recommendation symbolises smart regulation and i am pleased to support it.
in writing. − the original version of directive 2009/39/ec was adopted in 1977, and a revised version was adopted in 2009 to take account of the new committee procedure. over the past 36 years, the food market has changed to such an extent that a review of existing regulations is necessary. it is also necessary to simplify and clarify the provisions relating to them. it is particularly appropriate to abolish the vague concept of 'dietary foods' and to eliminate the differences between the national provisions governing foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses in the member states, which will have a positive impact on the creation of a level playing field. the regulations will facilitate the free movement of foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses in the member states.
in writing. − magnetic resonance imaging (mri) is a highly effective medical diagnostic technique that allows non-invasive detection of disease. although this method is not particularly dangerous for the health of the patient (apart from the possibility of an allergic reaction in case of administration of a shading agent), long-term work with electromagnetic field equipment may have a negative impact on the health of diagnostic centre staff. directive 2004/40/ec introduced very restrictive provisions which limited the scope of the mri method, and therefore, after the intervention of the medical community, the commission decided to postpone the deadline for transposition of the directive from april 2008 to april 2012. in recent years, very stringent control measures and safety training have been introduced in the mri sector, which has minimised the harmful effects of emf exposure on both patients and staff. it is therefore appropriate to exempt the mri sector from the restrictive provisions of the directive, thus maintaining a reasonable compromise between ensuring the safety of workers and the use of scientific and technical progress in diagnosis and treatment.
in writing. − the subject under discussion concerns the minimum health and safety requirements for the exposure of workers to risks arising from physical agents, in view of the particularly negative impact of the transposition of this directive on the use and development of magnetic resonance imaging (mri) techniques. the initially very strict limit values for internal exposure measures laid down in that directive have limited the scope of the mri method, which is essential for the diagnosis and treatment of many diseases. i am pleased that the european commission has finally decided to present this proposal, in which it has proposed to exclude from the limit values the internal exposure measures of the mri sector and related activities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1342/2008 of 18 december 2008 establishing a long-term plan for cod stocks and the fisheries exploiting those stocks. it is not possible to protect cod stocks effectively without long-term planning. if we are to enjoy cod for a long time as fishermen or consumers, we must manage the resources effectively, which are not infinite.
in writing. − maintaining fishing mortality rates at sustainable levels based on scientific advice should allow fish stocks to be rebuilt. it is therefore necessary to harmonise the methods of calculating the input by the member states. it is necessary to take into account scientific advice in order to improve the cod stock plan. the new projects aim to reduce cod catches as well as discards while maintaining sustainable levels of catches of target species.
in writing. − although the cod recovery plan is mainly focused on the north sea and celtic sea, the sustainability of fisheries and the recovery of cod stocks is of great importance for poland and the other member states. a long-term plan to consistently maintain cod fishing mortality rates at levels based on scientific reports should allow the recovery of cod stocks, which are in an alarming state in many fishing areas across the european union. member states should give priority to a sustainable management plan (including the protection of stocks against overfishing) and to the development of tools to eliminate illegal fishing practices.
in writing. - in today's vote i voted in favour of the report by mr iacolino. organised crime, corruption and money laundering are interlinked phenomena, which have increased with globalisation and the development of new technologies, and have a detrimental impact on both the economy and society. the report discusses in a systematic and detailed way the potential ways to combat these negative phenomena, including recommending the creation of a common and uniform legal framework for all eu countries in the area. it also recommends closer police and judicial cooperation at european and international level. i am convinced that the provisions of this document will contribute to the gradual elimination of phenomena such as: human trafficking, the sale of organs, the trade in wild flora and fauna, the smuggling of cigarettes and alcohol, child pornography, the illegal trade in pharmaceutical products or the theft and smuggling of works of art and many others. in this context, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the outcome of her work and express my support for the content of the document.
in writing. − i abstained from voting on this report. i fully support the intentions of this report to prevent many aspects of organised crime, corruption, and money laundering. i agree that globalisation has also spread into crime, and that the issue has to become a concern for the eu. however, this report involves many entities that i cannot support. some of these include: the harmonisation of the criminal law system, right to asylum, proposal on prison sentencing and conditions, and a more complete banking union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr iacolino's mid-term report, which contains important parliamentary initiatives to combat organised crime, a phenomenon not only present in our country but which is, in fact, mainly recorded in various parts of europe. in this sense, the main objective to be pursued in order to combat and counter criminal organisations effectively is to succeed in hitting the economic heart of organised crime, with an increasingly harmonised european legislative system. in this respect, the new technologies at our disposal, together with the joint willingness of the member states to cooperate in this field, are essential ingredients for improving and intensifying what has already been done.
in writing. − the report by mr iacolino on organised crime, corruption and money laundering is, in my view, critical to financial and economic order and to respect for the law and moral and ethical standards. the main reasons for my vote in favour were: strengthening the role of judges and prosecutors, who should receive additional training and exchange good practice internationally (the situation in poland in this area confirms the usefulness of this action), the proposal for a coherent system of sentencing and serving prison sentences in the member states, the call for increased budgetary expenditure on prosecution and punishment. the regulation in question is related to the issue of tax havens recently discussed by the european council. then the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, articulated the enormous losses we all suffer because of tax havens, corruption and money laundering. it is good that these two subjects were discussed almost simultaneously.
in writing. - the problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering have recently become a global phenomenon. a similarly powerful response at european level is therefore needed. the ep took the initiative in this area and adopted a report which aimed to formulate a uniform and coherent legal framework. the priority is to promote a public administration with a transparent structure that is more susceptible to corruption. the report also provides for a more efficient and reliable way of functioning of the judiciary. the ep recommends that member states establish effective criminal justice systems that can ensure that the rights of the defence are respected, in accordance with the european charter of fundamental rights. it is also important to ensure greater transparency and cooperation between the banking and professional systems. the ep also recommends self-regulation and transparency for businesses. the main tools in this respect are to be codes of conduct and the introduction of control procedures, such as internal or external auditing and a public register of lobbyists. the report called for a more responsible policy. the ep reminds political parties of the responsibility of nominating candidates and drawing up electoral lists. it also advocates the principle of the loss of the right to vote in elections to the european parliament and the right to serve in the other eu institutions and agencies by persons convicted of money laundering and corruption offences.
in writing. - organized crime has now become a global economic actor disrupting the legal economy. criminal organisations have gradually extended their spheres of influence internationally, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the opening of the european union's internal borders, as well as by economic globalisation and technological progress, by entering into agreements with criminal groups from other countries. the rapporteur is in favour of the idea of creating more effective european and national rules in the fight against organised crime, corruption and money laundering, in particular by harmonising the legal framework and enhancing cooperation between the judiciary and the police. it is also important to create a more transparent banking and professional system and adequate measures to combat money laundering.
in writing. - it is good that the ep is dealing with the fight against organised crime and corruption. these pathological phenomena are causing increasing economic and social losses and are increasingly international in nature. they are, unfortunately, increasingly effective at crossing borders. criminal organizations are increasingly active in such areas as public procurement, international transport, waste management, illegal trade in natural resources, and gambling and prostitution. statistics show that the losses incurred on a european scale are in the billions of euros per year. we must fight it decisively and effectively. the european union must take action, not only to respond to the crisis but also to prevent it. we need to prevent criminals from legalising the proceeds of their criminal activities and effectively seize such assets so that crime never pays. i find the idea of creating a european public prosecutor's office, particularly for the prosecution and punishment of cross-border crime, interesting. it would of course need to work with europol, eurojust and the european anti-fraud office (olaf). this would undoubtedly increase the capacity to combat the most serious transnational crimes.
in writing. − the aim of social housing is to provide habitable premises (taking into account the appropriate size, equipment and state of the art) for the poor, homeless or evicted. these facilities are usually provided by the state and granted by a court decision. however, eu countries have different rules on the standard of such housing and different criteria for granting it. it is therefore necessary to define the concept of social housing at european level, to introduce regulations specifying the technical requirements of such premises and determining the low cost of their maintenance. in times of economic crisis, well-managed investments in social housing, and in particular in the construction of such housing, will contribute to the economic recovery of the union countries. the appropriate use of funds (such as the european agricultural fund for rural development for social housing in rural areas) is key. in addition, by designing energy-efficient, low-maintenance buildings using renewable energy sources such as solar or wind energy, member states will contribute to improving the environment and achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - the figures in this report clearly show that the estimated number of european citizens living in social housing is now 25 million. they are distributed unevenly between member states and within each state, with different proportions between urban and rural areas. it is clear that in the context of the current economic crisis, even the eu's public housing sector is making demands and needs are increasing. the increase in the resources allocated to this type of housing is undoubtedly a testament to the commitment of parliament and the european union as a whole and a demonstration of our closeness to all people in need of affordable housing.
in writing. − social housing in the union, in terms of construction, maintenance, accessibility rules, the role of the state, are the key issues in this report. they are set against the backdrop of crisis, cuts and sacrifices, unemployment and the resulting new problems of millions of people in need. i fully supported the amendments tabled by my social democratic group on the advantages of social housing, the call for a framework for joint action and monitoring of social investment, and the criticism of the limitation of state aid for social housing. the proposal to establish a european housing observatory is noteworthy. i wish we had lost by one vote. we need a social inclusion strategy, and affordable housing is critical here, along with access to food, a doctor and transportation. i consider this problem to be particularly important and urgent in poland as one of the elements of the package of solutions needed for the young and the poor.
in writing. - housing should not be treated as a commodity, but rather as a right of every citizen. the market, especially in times of crisis, is unable to meet the housing needs of millions of citizens. 120 million europeans are affected or at risk of poverty, and unemployment is a growing social scourge. in this context, it is not surprising that already in 2010, the proportion of the population in the european union who were homeless was 5.7%, and 17.86% of the population lived in overcrowded or inadequate housing. there is a serious fear that the actual statistics would be even worse. in this context, member states should pursue an active housing policy. one of its elements should be the construction of new social housing for the most disadvantaged. investment in social housing should also be seen as a form of economic stimulus and support for the crisis-hit construction sector. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action plan, including the implementation of the union's climate action plan, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's climate action plan. in view of the above, i have decided to support the report on social housing in the european union.
in writing. − the recent economic slowdown and the current crisis have led to a significant deterioration in the housing situation of the poorest citizens of the european union, especially in large urban areas. appropriate steps should be taken to develop the social housing sector. member states must develop comprehensive strategies for action, taking into account the social conditions and issues in each region. it is necessary to take into account the social groups that are particularly in need of assistance, such as single mothers and homeless people (especially in the winter months). strategies should be developed to facilitate the start of young people who, due to lack of conditions, do not want to decide to start a family. a great idea to support the social construction sector is to reduce the level of taxation of companies in this sector. it also appears necessary to expand the supply of social housing that meets safety and quality standards by bringing existing premises up to the required standards while harmonising those standards in all member states.
in writing. - i support the report by ms licija ronzulli, who is promoting the mobility of women within the european union to enhance their professional skills and improve their education, as guaranteed to citizens by the treaty on european union. promoting occupational mobility is also one of the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to increase employment for women and men aged 20 to 64 to 75%. improving the skills of women by enabling them to move around the eu and to access its labour markets more easily translates into a better functioning eu single labour market and thus contributes to economic and social progress. it should be noted that the economic crisis in the eu has had a very negative impact on the situation on european labour markets. unfortunately, women have been the hardest hit, with unemployment rates as high as 10.7% among them. in the light of the above, i believe that member states should pay particular attention to actively promoting professional mobility among women through local vocational training centres offering language or vocational courses, mutual recognition of diplomas between countries or by simplifying administrative procedures for applying for a job in another country. i am convinced that in the long term such actions will contribute to the effective fight against unemployment among women throughout the union.
in writing. - i want to congratulate licia ronzulla on an extremely interesting report. it is widely recognised that the union will not be able to develop fully unless its citizens are convinced of the need for greater mobility. particularly now, in times of crisis, when we are experiencing such a wide variation in unemployment rates between member states, it is important to seize the opportunities that mobility within the single market creates. the figures cited in the report show that almost twice as many women as men are taking advantage of this opportunity. so it seems that this is the easiest way to increase employment. i voted for mrs ronzulla's report today because i believe that taking action in this direction will allow us to make greater use of the high qualifications of women. the union cannot afford to waste their potential. however, this will not be possible without creating the right conditions, including, above all, the possibility of reconciling family life with working life and convincing men to take on some of the household responsibilities. for example, women's occupational mobility is very strongly dependent on the family model in place, regardless of their country of origin.
in writing. - modern women can be described as "mothers of europe". they have a university education, speak several languages fluently, and are able to balance motherhood with a secular career. yet, the european union still faces a shortage of skilled workers. this situation is linked, among other things, to the low availability of the labour market in european countries. the lack of up-to-date social benefits legislation in the country is another obstacle to worker mobility. this is true in many cases of women who often fear that because of motherhood they will not have a chance to return to the labour market quickly. the availability of labour markets has an impact on the level of education, increases the employment of women, and has a direct impact on gdp. therefore, every effort should be made to eliminate occupational segregation and wage discrimination and to adapt education, training and social benefits systems to the new requirements of the european labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i strongly support the mobility of women in the eu. on average, women in the eu have more university degrees than men. more than half of the degrees in the field of healthcare are held by women. there is no logical reason why we should not support these women moving to where there is employment and giving them the help to take their families with them. increased movement of women can only improve our economy and the lives of our citizens. the same is true for gender quotas in politics and business. the more women in management in the future, the better our society and the greater our economic prosperity will be. this is why i voted in favour of paragraph 23.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of educational and occupational mobility of women in the eu (2013/2009(ini)). this legislation will, among other things, emphasise that educational and occupational mobility are recognised as offering added value to the eu and stresses that the economic crisis is making it increasingly necessary to adapt one’s choice of occupation to what is available on the labour market, and that it is increasingly vital for women to be more adaptable to the demands of new career opportunities when changing occupations. furthermore, all citizens have the right to receive a decent level of education and the opportunity to update their knowledge and acquire new skills throughout their working lives. these are objectives which call for shared responsibility between governments, public authorities, employers, social partners and individual citizens. i feel strongly that education and training systems still need to adapt to the needs of the labour market and to an increasingly knowledge-based economy and society. with the further implementation of policies such as this our citizens can become more educated and therefore more adaptable to the ever-changing markets.
madam president! road tolls are a means of obtaining financial revenue for the use of the road network, intended in theory for coverage and for construction, maintenance and renovation. the amount of these fees is often inadequate to the degree and sometimes the quality of the service offered. however, i do not think that extending the charging scheme to other vehicle groups would be in the public interest. the low level of interest in the implementation of electronic charging suggests that it is not economically attractive. the national authorities should not be forced to do so. moreover, it should be the exclusive responsibility of the member states to decide on the use to which the funds thus obtained are put. it is also not reasonable to impose a single charging system. each country has its own transport characteristics and the system it uses should reflect these characteristics. however, for citizens of countries that have not yet introduced any charges, this would represent a completely unjustified cost.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution on the strategy for electronic toll collection and the vignette system for light private vehicles in europe. the proposed changes could lead to a significant increase in the financial costs that eu member states would have to bear in relation to the implementation of the european electronic toll system. they may also lead to a reduction in the revenue from the charges. i believe that the current arrangements, which leave member states free to choose their charging system (toll or vignette), are more reasonable. poland applies a system of tolls based on kilometres driven for all vehicle categories. it cannot be excluded that this system will be changed in the future for certain categories of vehicles. the current system implements the 'user/polluter pays' principle in practice. he is just and impartial. i think it's better than the vignette system. the cost of implementing and operating the changed system is also a problem. member states have different road networks and different geographical conditions. therefore, it is appropriate to allow both tolls and vignette systems to be applied to all vehicle categories. it is not surprising to me, therefore, that the draft resolution states that there is no political will to improve the european electronic toll system.
in writing. − i voted against this report because i cannot support a number of the proposed considerations. the largest setback is that the report pushes too strongly for strict actions to ensure an interoperable european electronic road toll service. force is not the right approach to making member states develop the eets. i believe that the problem lies with the implementation difficulties of the current directive. in addition, i do not agree that the eu should decide how the revenues collected from road charging should be spent. this should be completely up to the member states to decide.
in writing. − i voted in favour of an interoperable european electronic toll service for light private vehicles since we need to come to a playing field for all transport modes. external costs caused by the single modes of transport have to be taken into consideration. a sophisticated toll service for light private vehicles could be a tool to put a price tag on pollution, land use, accidents and noise.
in writing. − i voted against the report on the strategy for the implementation of the european electronic toll service and the vignette system, as i believe that the changes proposed in the report may lead to an increase in the financial burden associated with the adaptation of the infrastructure in the member states to eets unification. the current toll systems are so effective and have taken so long to develop that it seems completely unjustified to change them. moreover, the market itself generates its own needs and the current legal arrangements at union level leave member states free to choose the charging system. while the system of tolls for actual carriage is admittedly fairer, the system of vignette tolls seems to be much easier and much cheaper to maintain, especially for passenger cars.
in writing. − the rapporteur rejected the proposal to further develop the eets project, arguing that the programme has so far had more disadvantages than advantages. to introduce a project that so deeply interferes with the economic zone, with the use of the national road infrastructure, the legislator should first examine the appropriateness of the regulation and refine it, because at the moment the eets charging system introduced by the commission is resulting in protests and complaints about financial losses and discrimination instead of bringing benefits from its operation.
in writing. - unfortunately, i had to vote against the report on the implementation of the european electronic toll service and the vignette system for light private vehicles. the current market-based model for the introduction of eets is appropriate, as it is the market that should decide in what form and to what extent eets will apply and whether its use is considered legitimate by users. the market prefers to use other, simpler and cheaper solutions such as fleet card payments than eets services. the proposed changes could lead to a significant increase in the financial costs that states would have to bear in relation to the implementation of eets, or lead to a reduction in the revenue from the charges, which countries that are still in the phase of intensive road network expansion cannot afford.
mr. chairman, please! if the russian writer nikolai gogol were alive today, he might be seeking asylum in the european union, and he once wrote these beautiful words: "the old is not yet dead, the new is not yet born, but both are threatening the living". i have the impression that the current asylum law is fatal (that's why we want to change it), but what is being proposed is far from perfect. i have the impression that we are throwing the baby out with the bathtub, that this proposal is fraught with many flaws and actually contradicts expectations because if we talk about a common asylum policy, then in fact a completely different kind of refugees, asylum seekers, political migrants are coming to france, and a completely different kind to poland, because some come from north africa to france, and others from the countries of the former soviet union.
blue-card question. – mr president, you mentioned certain imbalances between member states concerning the uptake of asylum seekers. do you have precise figures that will clarify your point?
mr. chairman, please! there is no doubt that the free movement of people is one of the european union's greatest achievements. the rights acquired allow citizens to move, settle and work freely in any country. temporary restrictions are not a concern in situations of security risk, e.g. terrorist attack. however, the decision to introduce them should remain with the member states. unfortunately, there are also calls for stricter internal control rules for economic reasons. they express the need to stop internal labour migration. these proposals appear to be unfounded and are clearly contrary to the principles of the functioning of the community. i consider them to be clearly contrary to the interests of the european citizens. this is all the more incomprehensible since migrant workers have often made a significant contribution to the economic situation of the country concerned. the proposal to strengthen the protection of the fragile external borders should be supported. we regularly report cases of illegal immigration, often using methods that are life-threatening.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the possibility of moving across europe without a passport and without borders is one of the most important proofs for union citizens of the sense of building a united europe. i have no doubt about that. in today's debate we are discussing two regulations, one of which introduces a new procedure for the reintroduction of certain controls at internal borders between schengen countries. both regulations therefore concern the important freedom of movement of people within the european union. i want to be honest here and say that i consider this direction of change in the law on the free movement of persons within the union to be risky, but i understand the reasons why it has been proposed. and that is why, despite my sceptical assessment, i will vote in favour of both the report by mrs weber and the report by mr coelho. i will also do so because decisions on matters such as the reintroduction of internal borders within the schengen area and the assessment of whether a member state is complying with the requirements and obligations arising from the shared responsibility for security and the protection of the union's external borders will be taken jointly and under the supervision of the european commission. i believe that this key role of the commission as guardian of the treaties and the citizens' rights deriving from them will ensure that these new possibilities for restoring borders are not abused and that their application is limited to the most exceptional situations. i want to emphasize that migration flows cannot be a pretext for restoring borders in europe. the commission's response to the letter from four home affairs ministers on the prevention of abuse of national welfare systems shows that it deserves credit for its trust.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to emphasize that the schengen area is one of the most powerful arguments for european integration today, and this is particularly important at a time of rising anti-eu sentiment. union citizens value and appreciate freedom of movement and the exceptional nature of checks, especially at the external borders of the union. and that's why i think the most important thing today is the effectiveness of border controls. they do so not only in their own interests but also on behalf of and for the benefit of all the member states. i would like to support in particular all those solutions which should improve the efficiency of this external control, because unfortunately there are a lot of doubts about the internal solutions.
mr. chairman, please! the legislative proposal prepared by the european commission clearly shows that it has yielded to the demands of some member states. the proposed solutions would not only have a major impact on the functioning of the schengen area, but above all they would undermine one of the foundations of the union - the free movement of persons. recent years have shown that member states are capable of violating the values common to the union for internal political purposes, including by introducing unjustified internal border controls. if we accept this practice, it will spread throughout the community in time. i therefore fully agree with the rapporteur that the commission and parliament should be able to monitor the reintroduction of internal border controls. it cannot be allowed to happen in a free and unrestricted manner by the member states. i therefore support the proposal that the commission should draw up guidelines on the reintroduction of controls in order to ensure a consistent interpretation of the existing rules. it should also prepare annual reports on the functioning of the schengen area for the parliament and the council. i have no doubt that in this case the eu institutions alone guarantee the rational and justified application of the exceptions allowing for the temporary reintroduction of internal border controls.
mr. chairman, please! i am sorry that today, instead of talking about bulgaria and romania joining the schengen area, we are trying to justify and explain and talk about the controls that some countries wanted to introduce, because we are taking two steps forward in the european union and then we are going backwards. i think it is high time that we started talking about opening the schengen area as soon as possible, rather than closing it. i am also sorry that parliament has been sidelined in this whole procedure, its role has not been appreciated, and i fear that later on, in the kind of arrangements that have been reached, parliament's opinion will not be taken sufficiently into account either. i shall therefore support this report, but with very great reservations.
in writing. achieving the smooth movement of eu citizens within the schengen area is one of the eu's fundamental achievements. checks on passengers at borders should only be carried out if there is any suspicion of a traveller. it was supposed to be for the safety of the citizens. the reintroduction of border controls and the hindering of citizens' movement within the schengen area is, in my view, now dictated more by economic and financial considerations than by security. like some members, i am in favour of maintaining the flow of people moving between eu countries and of strengthening the external borders to avoid the influx of people from non-eu countries. depriving eu citizens of the right to move freely between member states could undermine the authority, credibility and meaning of the union among its citizens. moreover, it promotes local thinking rather than the global one that is the eu's raison d'être. each member state has its own view of the schengen area, but we must not forget that as member states we are creating a union and seeking common goods and benefits for all of us. we should support an approach that is based on one common space and support people who want to use it. i believe that to restrict the current privileges of eu citizens again would be a big step backwards, and the basis of the functioning of the union is continuous development to improve international cooperation.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it was a difficult, complex job, and with all the more credit we must thank our reporters, arlene mccarthy and klaus-heiner lehne. the changes that will come into force after the new rules are in place will, above all - and this is very important - allow small and medium-sized enterprises and micro-enterprises to take a break from excessive reporting requirements and thus reduce their administrative burden. it appears that a compromise can be reached which will ensure that the necessary mandatory reporting is carried out by small firms, while avoiding excessive red tape. as regards the second issue, the so-called transparency directive, there was much more excitement and we had a lot of trouble finding a compromise. new rules for reporting by mining and forestry companies of payments to developing country governments exceeding eur 100 000 appear acceptable. there have been many ideas on this directive, but i think that the compromise texts obtained by our rapporteurs in the tripartite talks are the best negotiable texts at this stage. this may seem to some to be too low-key, but we must remember that european companies must have a chance to compete with the industries of china or the united states or other countries which do not attach such importance to this. i agree that transparency and social responsibility for actions are extremely important. however, they must be in line with the basic principles of competition in the market so that in the future union companies have the opportunity to develop their activities outside the union and to contribute to the development of third countries as well. the epp group will support both reports.
mr. chairman, please! the commission's proposal for a directive on annual accounts is the next step in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy to create a sustainable and more business-friendly economy in the union. the project is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, which represent over 90% of european companies and which will have greater opportunities for growth and access to finance thanks to simplified conditions for their activities. i also support the commission's proposed system for disclosing payments to the administration, which will provide access to information on revenue flows, and help civil society actors to better account for government administration. the legal solutions proposed in the proposal aim at significant procedural and administrative simplifications, which are expected to reduce the administrative burden by 25% in the coming years and help save around eur 1.5 billion for all companies covered by the directive. it is a good initiative that reduces red tape, introduces uniform legislation and ensures well-established standards in the european area of company law.
mr. chairman, please! competition policy has been part of the european integration process almost from the outset. it is safe to say that without it there would be no union. we must therefore strictly observe the principle of free competition, especially now, in the second wave of the crisis. i fully agree with the rapporteur that competition policy cannot be used to simply strengthen existing businesses but to facilitate the entry of new players. in this context, my great concern is the banking market. the available data show that the ongoing consolidation in this sector has contributed to the increase in market share of several large financial institutions. this is particularly worrying because it was the banking system that caused the crisis to erupt in 2008. the corrective measures taken were intended to ensure that no bank was 'too big to fail' so that society no longer had to pay for the mistakes of private actors. the budgetary crisis in many member states has its origin in the state bailout of the large banks in distress. today, it appears that the measures taken have not worked, and have even led to the creation of even larger financial institutions. so who will pay for their mistakes? the public again?
in writing. to rebuild growth after the crisis, we need to ensure a high level of competitiveness so that entrepreneurs in each member state have equal access to the market. more emphasis should be placed on the development of the electronic market. in particular, we should work towards standardising and simplifying electronic payments. therefore, the elements of the consumer rights directive should be implemented as soon as possible. this includes the elimination of hidden costs for online payments and the prohibition of surcharges for consumers for payments made with bank cards and other means of payment. free and low-cost internet payments can significantly increase e-commerce within the union. according to ecommerce europe, the fastest growing countries in e-commerce are non-eu countries such as ukraine and turkey. moreover, online retail sales of goods and services in europe grew by as much as 19% in 2012. to develop the eu market, we need to remove existing barriers to the market by harmonising the law, which will support small and medium-sized enterprises operating on the internet. a large proportion of these are young people and removing barriers could make a significant contribution to reducing unemployment among this age group. the commission should monitor this market closely, as it is a very dynamic area - as dynamic as the electronic market is developing.
mr. chairman, please! illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing is the dark side of fishing. they have a huge impact on the environment, reducing fish stocks and destroying habitats. they also have a serious impact on fisheries, distorting competition, harming the interests of honest fishermen and weakening coastal communities. it is estimated that iuu fishing may represent up to 19% of the world's catches. of course, the european union is working hard to close the legal loopholes that allow illegal operators to profit from iuu fishing. one such action is the report by mr romeva and mr rueda which is being discussed today. in addition, in order to combat iuu fishing effectively, the member states of the european union have been equipped with different tools and procedures. exports and imports from the european union of seafood products approved as legal by the relevant flag and exporting country or a european blacklist covering both iuu vessels and countries that tolerate illegal fishing are tangible examples of such tools. the report by mr romeva and mr rueda is only an adaptation of the lisbon treaty, but even these technical changes contribute to a better fight against this growing phenomenon, which has negative effects on an international scale. the effectiveness of the fight against iuu fishing therefore depends on the wide cooperation and mutual support of all states.
member of the commission. - mr president, this will allow me to take up some points and to clarify them. this proposal, mr andrieu, is not a lack of respect for parliament, it is simply a precautionary measure. if parliament succeeds, at the end of the negotiations on the budgetary perspective with the council, in increasing the budget for the common agricultural policy and bringing it up to the level of the commission's initial proposal, there will be no need to apply this measure. but for the moment, the figure on the table, following the council's decision in relation to what the commission has proposed, is this. rather than coming now with a small reduction and being obliged at the end, in a few months, to reduce even more, i think it is better to take this precautionary measure and i would remind you that this is a legislative proposal and that it is up to you to decide with the council. and i have made it clear - and mr la via has also said it - that the letter of amendment can be used to reverse the reduction we have proposed and to reduce the direct payment by less. secondly, in reply to those who say that we are cutting direct payments to farmers and therefore taking money. i would remind you that this financial discipline is applied to a crisis fund which is part of the common agricultural policy, which remains for the farmers. let us not give the impression that money is being taken from farmers under the common agricultural policy and given to someone else. mrs garcía pérez, you will recall that two years ago, i think, during the crisis in the fruit and vegetable sector, the crisis fund helped spain and other countries with fruit and vegetable producers to cover some of the losses. that's what this money is for. this money is not lost. we build this crisis reserve and if the money is not used in 2014 for a crisis, it is not lost, it goes back to the farmers. so it's just a reserve that we build up and it stays for the farmers. i'm back on the 5,000-euro deduction, and i'm not going to take it. that's right, mr nicholson, 80% of the farmers will be exempt. but i would also remind you that these 80% receive only about 20% of direct payments. we exempt farmers who only receive 20% of direct payments. so i also do not want to give the impression that only a small number of farmers are affected by this measure. it's a smaller portion of farmers, but receiving higher levels of payment, so it feels to us like a measure of fairness. it is simpler administratively, because with this limit of eur 5 000, the administrative burden of 80% of the number of farmers is eliminated, and the focus is also on those with the highest payment. as regards posei, the current regulation, which the commission must respect, provides that modulation does not apply to posei regions. however, financial discipline also applies to these regions. so, in any case, the commission had no choice, because it is obliged to respect the rules. the commission makes legislative proposals in this case, taking into account certain regulations. and it is the same regulation that also provides that in order for codecision to apply to this regulation, parliament, together with the council, must take a decision before 30 june. if a decision is not taken by 30 june on this regulation, the financial regulation in force provides that the commission will be obliged to come up with another proposal. with these explanations, i think things are now clearer and i hope you have the information you need to make an informed decision.
in writing. the modification of the direct payments for 2013 is necessary because the preliminary estimates for the draft budget for 2014 showed that the ceiling for market related expenditure and direct payments will be exceeded. the european commission has therefore proposed a reduction of the aid by almost 5% (exactly 4,981759%). however, work on the new multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 is still ongoing and the estimated reduction rate has been calculated on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in february, and the european parliament has not yet approved the budget proposal. therefore, until the work on the new mffs is finalised, it is not clear whether an adjustment of the level of direct payments is needed and, if so, what the correction coefficient should be (the rapporteur proposes a reduction of 0,748005%). however, i strongly support the idea that only farms applying for direct aid of more than eur 5000 should be eligible for the reduction. this will help to reduce the problem of unequal distribution of funds between small and large beneficiaries.
mr president, as a citizen of the union i expect a lot from this summit and from those that will follow. we have to look ahead, and the good thing about this crisis is that it has mobilised us to embark on unprecedented reforms. but crisis-driven reforms also come with the risk of a specific moral hazard. the moment that impatient politicians announce the end of the crisis, the appetite for reforms will vanish. the political momentum will be lost, and there is a risk that post-crisis europe will abandon the path of reform and return to simply administering the union. we cannot afford such a risk. let me also say that, if all reforms are not carried out, those implemented so far will be weakened. the lack of fiscal union will undermine the monetary union, and an incomplete banking union will put the reputation of the ecb under pressure. equally important risks are generated by this continuous swinging back and forth between the community method and transnational arrangements along the path to reform. this generates institutional confusion which additionally widens the existing legitimacy gap. we have to be clear about where we want to go. if we act without a coherent vision and take a piecemeal approach to reforms, we will be unable to get citizens on board for the reforms. we all know what a powerful machine citizens’ support can be.
in writing. youth unemployment is very high and worrying. i am glad to see that the european institutions have been working very hard over the last few months to reduce this unfortunate and undesirable phenomenon. long-term youth unemployment is dangerous because it reduces social dynamics and threatens to have serious consequences. it is worth the european funds to fight this evil. i agree with the irish presidency that this is why it is so important to adopt the multiannual financial framework. they will provide stability and a clear perspective, including in the fight against youth unemployment. i regret that it is the european parliament which is delaying the conclusion of the interinstitutional agreement on the mff. the political ambitions of some of my colleagues may unfortunately be detrimental to the achievement of this important challenge of reducing unemployment.
in writing. i believe that the decision to dedicate the next eu council summit to a major boost to employment and the competitiveness of the european economy is fully justified. despite many efforts and initiatives, the situation on the european labour market is still bad. recent data show that unemployment in the european union remains at a steady high of 11%, and that the level of unemployment among young people is often several times higher. in this context, it is worth paying attention to initiatives coming directly from the youth community. the youth of the european people's party proposed a concrete programme three steps to boost youth employment. the proposal includes tax breaks for companies employing young people, better adaptation of education programmes to labour market requirements, including the introduction of vocational placements as an integral part of training, and the creation of business incubators, clusters and capital support for young entrepreneurs. the youth emphasise that bureaucratic burdens, excessive taxation and lack of access to capital are serious barriers for young entrepreneurs. it is worth listening to the voices of young people who emphasise that they want more than just social support and initiatives to prevent social exclusion. young people expect the european union and the member states to adopt a good, entrepreneurial and dynamic employment policy that encourages the creation of new jobs.
the next item is the corrections.
thank you very much, mrs. sinclaire. we take note of that.
the next item is the continuation of the vote. (results and other voting details: see minutes)
unfortunately, you misunderstood the voting rules. we did not vote on the content of the report, but on the recommendation for a specific candidate, and that candidate, neven mates, did not receive a recommendation from the european parliament.
mr vlasák, i am sorry but according to our rules we cannot accept that request, because there was a certain deadline to ask for a roll-call vote and that final deadline has just passed.
i hereby close the vote.
in writing. − the regulation amending the schengen borders code to establish common rules for the temporary reintroduction of border control at internal borders in exceptional circumstances and the regulation establishing an evaluation and monitoring mechanism provide the basis for closer cooperation between member states in the schengen area. the new evaluation system is a union mechanism that will require the participation of experts from the member states, the commission and relevant eu agencies. the modernised mechanisms are to be more efficient, more stringent and subject to democratic control.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased with the changes that have been proposed to establish a community system within fishing. the report effectively highlights the necessity for the modifications to regulation no 1005/2008. in addition, i am happy to see that the changes made in this regulation will be in line with the new rules of the tfeu.
in writing. the rapporteur has supported the amendments to the commission regulation on illegal fishing. the proposed amendments are intended to improve the system for combating illegal fishing and to lead to a wider consensus between the union and the countries required to respect fishing restraints. this is to be ensured, inter alia, by harmonising the rules and by establishing a system of consultation of the commission at expert level in order to obtain objective, reliable and up-to-date information. it is also important that the commission ensures the timely transmission of documents to the european parliament and the council.
in writing. − i abstained on the recast proposal on the establishment of standards for the reception of applicants for international protection. the reason for the suspension was that most of the provisions remained in force before the application was converted.
in writing. − i have supported a report on an application for international protection lodged in one of the member states by a third-country national or a stateless person. the aim of the document is to increase the efficiency of the asylum system and to ensure maximum protection for asylum seekers. a common asylum policy, including a common european asylum system, is a crucial element in the achievement of the european union's key objective of establishing an area of freedom, security and justice. i believe that the actions undertaken will contribute to ensuring access to an effective and transparent asylum system within the european union, allowing third-country nationals or stateless persons to receive appropriate assistance and protection, while guaranteeing a correspondingly high level of security within europe.
in writing. − i abstained on a recast application for international protection lodged in one of the member states by a third-country national or a stateless person. the reason for the suspension was that most of the provisions remained in force before the application was converted.
in writing. − i abstained on the recast application for the granting and withdrawal of international protection. the reason for the suspension was that most of the provisions remained in force before the application was converted.
in writing. - the ongoing economic crisis is contributing to the increase in homelessness and poverty. in 2011, almost 120 million europeans were at risk of poverty or social exclusion. europe's common economic and social future depends to a large extent on the economic situation of its citizens. the european fund for the most deprived will have a budget of eur 2,5 billion for the period 2014-2020. it will support programmes to prevent homelessness and food shortages, among other things. the programme will focus in particular on the homeless, children and poor families with children. the fund will play a very important role in improving the living standards of marginalised people, in particular the homeless and those affected by poverty. it will enable a large group of citizens to live with dignity and find employment more easily. the support that the poorest will receive under the programme will not provide comprehensive poverty reduction. therefore, in the face of rising unemployment and poverty in the european union, the fund can help many people, support the well-being of citizens, which will contribute to economic and social progress.
in writing. − i agree with the aims of this report, but i cannot support the initiative because i believe that it could be done in a more effective manner. i believe that the member states can best provide for the needs of deprived people in their countries. they have social programmes and local authorities that have a better understanding of which areas need the most help. by creating a fund for all member states, there is potential for inefficiency and that the proposed fund will not be spent effectively. there is a better way to help the deprived. we need to continue to look for better solutions.
in writing. − although the european union's europe 2020 strategy aims to reduce the number of people at risk of poverty, the current financial crisis has led to a significant increase in the number of people in this social group. the proposed amendments take into account the difficult position of women as the group (alongside children) most at risk of poverty and social exclusion. the fight against discrimination and equality between women and men are of paramount importance. the proposed changes to the fund's creation process take gender into account at all stages of implementation. as the eu budget for 2014-2020 has been reduced, a programme to help the most deprived is needed, which is why i voted in favour of the report. thank you!
in writing. − we have today voted to maintain the current level of eu support for the poorest at eur 3.5 billion over 7 years, i.e. eur 500 million per year. this is very good news for the growing number of people affected by poverty in the eu. the outcome of the negotiations on the eu budget for 2014-2020 will now be crucial. i do not think it was a good decision to extend the aid in question to cleaners and clothing, because it means reducing the expenditure on food aid, which is crucial for the poorest. clothing or cleaning products can be collected in other ways e.g. through public collections, while food must be of a guaranteed quality and come from a certain source. the european commission estimates that 116 million people in the eu are already at risk of poverty or social exclusion and more than 40 million are affected by extreme poverty. the fund for european aid to the most deprived is part of the eu's broader efforts to combat the social consequences of the crisis and to meet its commitments under the europe 2020 strategy, which aims to reduce by at least 20 million the number of people living in or at risk of poverty. in line with the principle that donated fish must be combined with fishing, in addition to the fund's support, more attention should be paid to the education of the excluded and the creation of new jobs for them.
in writing. - i abstained on the european fund for aid to the most deprived because the amendments did not contain clearly defined criteria and were only in the form of general clauses.
in writing. - i abstained on the european fund for aid to the most deprived because the amendments did not contain clearly defined criteria and were only in the form of general clauses.
in writing. − organised crime networks from third countries seek to use the asylum system to enter member states where they can expand their criminal networks. in order to combat crime effectively, the proposal was amended to include access to eurodac in the common european asylum system to better protect public order.
in writing. − i voted against the temporary reintroduction of border control at internal borders, because free movement within the area without internal border control is one of the union's greatest achievements and the temporary reintroduction of border control at internal borders restricts freedom of movement. moreover, migration and the crossing of external borders by a large number of third-country nationals should not be considered as a threat to public policy or internal security. pursuant to recital 5a of regulation (ec) no 562/2006, full freedom of movement within the area without internal border control should be guaranteed and member states should not reintroduce internal border control for political reasons, as reintroducing control would constitute a serious setback in union legislation.
in writing. − i voted against the temporary reintroduction of border control at internal borders, because free movement within the area without internal border control is one of the union's greatest achievements and the temporary reintroduction of border control at internal borders restricts freedom of movement. moreover, migration and the crossing of external borders by a large number of third-country nationals should not be considered as a threat to public policy or internal security. pursuant to recital 5a of regulation (ec) no 562/2006, full freedom of movement within the area without internal border control should be guaranteed and it should be avoided that member states reintroduce internal border controls for political reasons, as reintroducing controls would constitute a serious setback in union legislation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the draft council regulation establishing an evaluation mechanism to verify the application of the schengen acquis. i have mixed feelings about this, though. i understand that the aim is to have an 'effective and reliable monitoring and evaluation system to enforce common principles and to improve, adapt and extend criteria based on the eu acquis', which was accompanied by a reminder that the eu's external borders should be managed effectively and coherently, with shared responsibility, solidarity and practical cooperation. i am glad that the new evaluation system is an eu mechanism. on the other hand, i have the impression that the evaluation mechanism could be used in the future to justify the practical limitation of the schengen acquis. i hope that doesn't happen.
in writing. - the schengen agreement and the privileges it confers are among the european union's greatest achievements. however, free movement sometimes has undesirable consequences, especially when the movement of people adversely affects the internal security of the union and its individual members. the draft standardisation mechanisms for the periodic reintroduction of internal border controls are a step towards properly regulating this issue. however, such mechanisms must be used only in exceptional situations, while maintaining the proportionality of the preventive measures used to the situation in question. the schengen borders code already provides for the possibility for a member state to reintroduce internal border controls in the event of a serious threat to public policy or internal security or during major cultural or sporting events. currently, a member state can resume border controls for a period of 10 days up to a maximum of 2 months. such a decision shall be taken at national level only. the new rules will require a member state to ask the ec to reinstate border controls for a period of up to 6 months, which could be extended by a separate decision for up to 2 years. such a proposal will be assessed by the ec and then approved by the council. commission scrutiny will ensure that these new possibilities for reinstating borders are limited to genuinely exceptional situations. given the rational nature of the schengen reform, i have decided to support it.
in writing. - the benefits of the schengen area are easily recognised by most eu citizens. the creation of the zone also speeds up the transport of goods and the exchange of services, thus facilitating the development of the common market. the schengen area is based on trust; each country trusts that other countries are properly protecting their borders. but the zone is a heterogeneous creation. and since border protection in each country affects all the others, solutions are needed at eu level, not just at interstate level, and a new schengen evaluation mechanism is needed. one important measure the commission has received is the possibility to submit a request for approval by the council for the reinstatement of borders in the event of a serious and long-term neglect of border protection by a member state. restoring borders, even for a short time, would be a difficult task for the population, but it should be stressed that these provisions give the union greater flexibility to act in the event of difficulties. in the long term, this will be beneficial for the stability of the schengen area. restoring border controls is a drastic move, but the very existence of such a possibility will discipline states to better observe border security.
in writing. − the proposal to amend the 2004 transparency directive introduces effective changes within the eu companies and creates the necessary transparency to protect the investors. one of the aspects in the report that i strongly agree with is the country-by-country reporting. it is important to provide the proposed information in the annual report so that the investors have information and are protected. in addition, i also accept the abolition of quarterly reporting. this is a clever idea because companies will be protected from any significant financial burden that might result. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i welcome the report drawn up in the committee on agriculture and rural development on the setting of the correction coefficient for direct payments for 2013. the european parliament cannot accept the arbitrary conclusions of the european council of 7-8 february 2013, which first reduced the overall ceiling of the appropriations for financing direct payments in agriculture and secondly transferred the crisis reserve to heading 2 of the multiannual financial framework. this will lead to a linear annual reduction in direct payments when the reserve is mobilised, at the expense of all farmers. the contingency reserve, given its unpredictable nature, should be outside the scope of the multiannual financial framework. the correction rate for direct payments should be set on the basis of the financial ceiling proposed by the european commission for 2014, which would be in line with the european parliament's negotiating mandate of march 2013. i also welcome the maintenance of the eur 5 000 threshold for direct payments for the application of the financial correction. this will help to protect the interests of smaller agricultural producers and contribute to a more equal distribution of cap resources. for these reasons, i have decided to support the draft report.
in writing. − the european parliament today supported the european commission's proposal to exclude farmers who receive less than €5,000 from direct payments cuts in 2013 as part of the so-called financial discipline. it is also very important that we have managed to maintain the threshold of eur 5 000 and to reduce the rate of reduction of payments from the level of almost 5% proposed by the european commission to less than 0.75%. the financial discipline mechanism was triggered by the european commission when it prepared the 2014 draft eu budget, when it was found that the preliminary estimates of direct payments and expenditure related to market activities exceeded the ceiling established in the 2014 budget year. as a result, the level of direct payments had to be reduced to ensure compliance with this ceiling. on this basis, the commission is presenting a proposal for the establishment of a correction coefficient for the direct payments for calendar year 2013, to be adopted by the european parliament and the council by 30 june 2013. in the absence of agreement between parliament and the council by that date, the commission shall itself set this coefficient on the basis of the relevant provisions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i am very pleased to see that this report is based on the practical experiences of the member states in the application of the schengen borders code. this gives credibility to this amendment. consequently, i agree with the aims underlined by the report, which are: to strengthen the rules that facilitate, simplify and further develop the free movement within the european schengen area and to support a rigorous framework for control and security at the external borders of the territory of the member states.
in writing. − the free movement of persons within the schengen area is one of the merits of european integration. freedom of movement is a fundamental right enshrined in eu law, and the abolition of internal border controls requires mutual trust between member states in their ability to fully implement the measures necessary to do so. it is necessary to amend the existing rules on the control of persons at the border and to strengthen the policy of integrated border management by improving the rules on the crossing of external borders. the adoption of the amended regulation establishing the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union ensures a further enhancement of the role of the agency in order to develop a policy towards the introduction of the concept of integrated border management.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the commission communication 'towards social investment for growth and cohesion' because it raises many issues that are crucial for the successful implementation of the social investment package and thus for getting back on the growth path and reversing negative social trends, especially the dramatic level of youth unemployment. i would particularly like to stress the importance of building partnerships between education and training institutions and local businesses to ensure high quality apprenticeships and traineeships and to better adapt curricula and training to labour market requirements. i also think it is crucial to introduce incentives for companies that employ young people, to reduce non-wage labour costs and to improve the availability of capital for small and medium-sized enterprises. i believe that creating conditions for social entrepreneurship increases the chances of creating new, sustainable jobs and is an important element in preventing poverty and social exclusion. the possibility for social enterprises to benefit from support under the progress microfinance facility would contribute to the development of this promising sector. while recognising the importance of social investment throughout the lifecycle of citizens, i would like to stress in particular the importance of investing in child development as a key way to increase employment opportunities and prevent marginalisation and poverty. it is worth noting that the potential of sport as a factor in the proper development of children's psycho-physical and social adaptation is still not fully exploited.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? aid to the less developed regions is an effective mechanism for equalising opportunities and enhancing competitiveness. there are regions, such as poland's mazowsze, which, because of the strong economic centre, no longer qualify as the weakest, even though almost all of their area is still characterised by a low level of development. i hope that the commission will take constructive action on this problem. i share the rapporteur's concerns about the proposed geographical coverage ceiling of the new state aid rules. especially in the face of the crisis, state aid to poorer regions is of great importance for increasing their economic potential. the complex political and social situation in many member states is a relevant argument against the introduction of territorial aid restrictions. the aid granted to the companies should also not be conditional on their size, but on their importance for the region, their contribution to its development through investment and the possibility of creating new jobs.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the report effectively underlines the obstacles in the draft of the regional state aid guidelines that was drawn up by the european commission. one of the points with which i agree is that the exclusion of large enterprises from the receipt of aid in ‘c’ regions and setting limits in relation to productive investments from ‘a’ regions is not right. the large enterprises employ a large number of people, make a good contribution towards innovation, and create a supply chain with small and medium enterprises. it is not justifiable to restrict them from the aid. in addition, i think that the european commission should rethink the reduction of aid intensity to the poorest eu regions. this action will create an inadequate level of aid to influence decisions on investment location. it will undermine the member states’ ability to draw investment toward the disadvantaged regions.
in writing. - i voted with the ecr group to adopt the report on regional policy as part of the wider state aid programmes. i believe that regional state aid can play an effective role, provided that it is used sparingly and proportionately. it is worth noting several important points in the report: firstly, while state aid should be granted primarily to small and medium-sized enterprises, the exclusion of large enterprises (whose definition includes many family businesses) is not justified, given their contribution to employment, the supply chain they form with small and medium-sized enterprises and their joint commitment to innovation and research and development. the commission's proposals to reduce the intensity of aid for the poorest regions of the eu should be reconsidered, as there is a serious risk that the level of aid proposed by the commission will be insufficient to influence investment location decisions and thus undermine the ability of member states to attract investment to less-favoured regions. the report also highlights the issue of state aid.
in writing. − implementing a cohesion policy that contributes to the european union's competitiveness and to the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, and rules on state aid schemes aimed at promoting local and regional investment and public-private partnerships, is essential to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion, regional and local development and job creation, and to help less developed regions to balance their development with that of more developed regions. the legislative package introduces conditions aimed at ensuring the effective implementation and application of eu state aid law in the context of cohesion policy.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? competition is the main driver of the economy. it promotes innovation and development. competition also helps us to achieve better pricing, higher quality products and a more efficient use of human and material resources. competition policy, by maintaining a level playing field, is a guarantee of the development of the single market. despite many attempts to reduce competitiveness in the wake of the crisis, it has proved to be the main stabilizer of the faltering economies of the member states. support for competition policy therefore seems to be the best remedy for difficult times. however, there are still a number of issues requiring urgent action. the lack of a single european market for electronic payments, the unfavourable operating conditions of logistics companies and the lack of transparency in the financial sector are just a few examples. the objectives of the single energy market are still not fully achieved. sound competition must also focus on consumer protection issues. in this respect, it is necessary to ensure the effectiveness of the recovery and redress procedures.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported the annual report on competition policy by mr antolín sánchez presedo. i believe that competition is an essential element of a market economy. the financial, economic and social crisis has been going on for five years. in my view, competition is also an essential tool for responding to this crisis and contributing to economic recovery. by promoting efficiency, it contributes to smart and sustainable economic growth across the european union. it also allows member states to correct irregularities in the common market while ensuring high quality goods and services. i believe that we should support efforts to detect anti-competitive behaviour in europe. in summing up my position on the report in question, i would like to express my satisfaction with the outcome of today's vote, and hope that it will make a useful contribution to combating the negative effects of the crisis on the european market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the report successfully highlights the importance of the competition policy and the need for its proposed initiatives. i completely agree that it is a key factor in constant development and a necessary instrument to respond to crises. it encourages companies to pursue success and innovation, which are both essential aspects of growth. without competition, the european union would cease to exist. it is important to improve the current competition policy so that the future looks promising.
in writing. − competition policy is essential to combat the crisis and to support the europe 2020 strategy, the single market and progress towards the banking union, a genuine economic and monetary union and deeper integration and convergence. the annual report should be an instrument to increase the eu's competitiveness, to broaden competition and to open up to new players. the proper functioning of competition policy requires the commission to assess distortions of competition and their impact on the economy and to strengthen competition protection, to introduce state aid control measures and to ensure economic efficiency and the smooth functioning of the market by merging undertakings.
mr. chairman, please! the disproportionate and largely unjustified use of police force against protesters in taksim square must be outrageous. the authorities in ankara should be restrained and understanding towards the protesters today. the guarantee of full media freedom is a fundamental condition for turkey's aspirations to become a member of the european union. however, it should be remembered that turkey remains the leader of democratic change in the region, and the same model for other muslim countries. its geostrategic position, its role in the north atlantic alliance and its contribution to europe's economic development are all attributes to which we should pay particular attention in our political relations with each other. under prime minister erdoğan, a number of socioeconomic reforms have been implemented, resulting in development and stability, as well as an increase in the importance of civil rights. the government's commitment to resolving the conflict in syria, including its extensive assistance to refugees, is to be fully commended. at the same time, each nation has the right to cultivate its own traditions, including respect for religion. unfortunately, we are increasingly experiencing attempts to deny these values, also within our own community.
mr. chairman, please! looking at what's happening in turkey, on the one hand, the protests are not just about trees, and on the other hand, it's hard to say that the country is on the verge of revolution. so what is this sudden outburst of discontent about? it's easy to conclude that what's happening in the streets of turkey right now is a wave of long-term opposition. certainly, prime minister erdogan's mistake was to insult the protesters by calling them "extremists" and "criminals". and it's clear that they're united across ideological, religious, and class lines. what they share above all is the belief that erdogan is becoming increasingly authoritarian and blindly determined to impose his vision of social conservatism. hopefully, the protests will end with something more than the uncertainty of tomorrow, and the authorities will be able to swallow their pride and create a basis for constructive dialogue.
mr. chairman, please! i'm sorry, but i'm not going to be able to do this. i will begin by saying that the european external action service, created almost from scratch two and a half years ago, has been able to prove both its usefulness and its effectiveness in that short period of time. in support of this opinion, i can cite the results of the service's involvement in the iranian nuclear programme, in serbian-kosovo relations and in the coordination of the eu's operation against pirates in somalia. as vice-president of parliament responsible for cooperation with the eastern partnership countries, i am also pleased that the european neighbourhood policy, including the eastern partnership, which is so close to my heart, has been given its proper place in the activities of the european external action service. the staffing decisions of the european union delegations in the eastern neighbourhood countries are also to be welcomed, although i would ask you, madam high representative, to strengthen the position of the heads of these delegations, for example by reducing the administrative tasks so that the head of delegation can focus more on strategic, political rather than administrative activities. but it's never so good that it can't be better. as a member of the subcommittee on human rights, i would like to draw your attention, for example, to the opinion of amnesty international, which considers that the european union is less effective today in protecting and promoting human rights than it was before the establishment of the service. this is also something that needs to be addressed and dealt with.
mr. president, madam president, i have to go. i am observing the work of the european service in the countries where i am most often, i.e. ukraine, moldova, i am observing the work in belarus - i could also mention other countries. it's a good experience. it is clear that this service is becoming a permanent feature of the european landscape. i would very much like those diplomats in the eastern partnership countries in particular to see it as a service to that part of europe which will one day be with us. what's missing? i think we talk too much about this artificial strengthening of the european external action service. let's do it by good work, by competence and by modesty. i think the spirit of service and modesty in the work of the officials will be a good example, will give them strength. i am missing it and i would ask the president, as beautifully as you speak of women's rights (it is necessary), to say a few words about the rights of christians. they are actually being persecuted in many places today, and they need your voice and they are calling on the european union to support them with these words. we need a better national balance, poland is far behind in that statistic. if this service is to succeed, it is also a part of your success, madam president, to ensure that this balance is achieved.
the review of the functioning of the eeas is intended to take into account, inter alia, the so-called geographical balance. in its report, in article 40, the european parliament stresses the need to quote take all necessary measures to restore geographical balance at the highest levels and in all other areas. unfortunately, that balance is still lacking. diplomats from the new member states, including poland, represent a small number in the eeas compared to diplomats from the so-called old countries of the union. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. poles are also under-represented in the lower echelons of the eeas. of the approximately 3,500 people employed there, poles make up only 3%. the european parliament, in its call for geographical balance, should seriously consider introducing national quotas in the eaggf.
madam president! the functioning and organisation of the european external action service were, so to speak, incompatible with the conflict, because the service was created, and on the other hand it was also in a period of such balancing between the european institutions and the member states, which mr gualtieri described as a 'natural state of discontent between the institutions'. at the same time, i would also like to emphasise that this was also a period of important events that have validated the functioning of this service, i.e. the arab spring, the new role in the field of human rights, the establishment of new institutions such as the ombudsman for human rights. the high representative was talking about her replacement. i think that these rules for cooperation with the commissioners responsible for the whole area of foreign affairs, i.e. neighbourhood policy, humanitarian aid and development aid, are good rules. it is particularly gratifying that the other commissioners are also involved in this process, because foreign policy is not just about diplomacy at the moment, but also and above all economic issues. indeed, the foreign ministers of the member states represent a potential to be exploited. if we can somehow redefine that, that would be very good. and the last thing is geographical balance in the services. mrs ashton highlighted the positive impact of the diplomats from the new member states. it is good that this balance should also cover the new member states.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the honourable high representative! we talk about democracy, human rights, media freedom today, and it would seem that these topics are distant, that they are not problems within the european union, but somewhere outside it. but i'm sorry to say, and i say this with regret, that's not the case. it is not, even if you look at what is happening in my country, poland, for example, where media pluralism does not exist and catholic media are simply discriminated against. well, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the only catholic tv station in poland, tv trwam, has not been able to get a place on the digital platform, the fact that 2.5 million signatures of polish citizens have been ignored in this case, the fact that catholics are excluded from public debate - these are the standards of democracy in my country today. that's how catholics are treated in poland these days. the same is true of other media. the example of the newspaper "rzeczpospolita" is a good example. the entire leadership of this newspaper, together with the editor who wrote the article about the smolensk disaster, where the elite of poles, led by president lech kaczyński, were killed, were fired from their jobs, and the government spokesman and the media oligarch, the owner of this newspaper, agreed on the theses of the next articles. another editorial staff, young people, were fired by the same media oligarch from the weekly "i think so". when they founded their own, they were stripped of the title, court-ordered, dear ladies and gentlemen, a few months after the title had actually started to function on the media market in poland. media companies in poland, pro-government media can count on the support of government agendas, on the support of the government, and independent journalists, independent media can only dream about it. i ask the high representative to pay particular attention to what is happening in poland, especially in this context, in the context of the persecution of catholic media, the discrimination against catholic media, but also the exclusion of independent journalists from the public debate. and one other thing. we are talking about christianity today, we are talking about religious freedom. ladies and gentlemen! there is some debate on this subject and i would ask you very sincerely to finally speak on behalf of christians in an international forum and to start defending christians around the world, because 200 million christians are persecuted around the world, and i have the impression that the european union is doing little about this, with you at the head.
madam president! i'm sorry to hear that. human rights are at the heart of the union's relations with all third countries, but there is no coherent human rights strategy in its contacts with russia, china, israel and the united states. it is therefore necessary to establish minimum standards for member states in this respect in their contacts with strategic partners. israel is causing a humanitarian disaster in the occupied palestinian territories. since january 2011, he has destroyed over 60 eu-funded facilities in the occupied zone, such as water tanks, solar panels, agricultural buildings. in response to my enquiry into this matter, the high representative replied that since 2009 there have been no reports of israeli destruction of union-funded infrastructure. in the light of the parliament's resolution on the eu's policy towards the west bank and east jerusalem, have the allegations of the destruction of eu-funded facilities in the occupied territories finally been verified? what has been achieved with the activists imprisoned in bahrain? parliament called for their release before the ministerial meeting with the gulf cooperation council, which is due to take place in bahrain on 30 june this year. violence against women is still common in my country, including institutional violence in the form of restrictive anti-abortion laws. what further action is planned to combat violence, including institutional violence? in conclusion, i would like to thank the high representative for her support of the international efforts to adopt an arms trade treaty. it is now vital that it be ratified, particularly by the major arms exporters. i therefore ask the high representative to continue to be involved in the process of ratification and implementation of the treaty.
vice-president of the commission/high representative. − madam president, i am grateful to parliament. i have had a very interesting four-and-a-half hours with you here today and two days in strasbourg, but i have a flight that i must catch to continue my work. i just want to pick up on three or four of the threads. my colleague andris piebalgs, ably supported by our special representative, will pick up the rest. firstly, it is very interesting how many members of this house have chosen to use this opportunity to talk about internal issues. as we say in the report, we understand the connection very well. the important thing is that the institutions need to be working together to make sure that the issues being raised are looked at and, if necessary, addressed. this is a fantastic institution, where freedom to say what you believe and what you think is valued extremely highly. i pay tribute to members who have been assiduous in wanting to ensure that human rights are a huge part of our work internally and externally. i want to make a couple of comments about specific things that have been raised. i think we have already had an important discussion – when we were talking about turkey – about the role of journalists and bloggers and the importance of freedom of expression and media. those who participated will know that it was an extremely valuable and important debate, spanning the spectrum of opinion in this house. it is important that we build on the work that ms schaake has done in her report and the work that we can do to continue to support media freedom and the ability of people to be able to hold and express their views and to ensure that information flows properly and freely. that is a fundamental part of the work we need to do in the future. it is increasingly important when we look at some of the situations that we face in the world. in all of the work we do – whether on trade and investment or our third-country relationships and in every dialogue and every conversation – it is absolutely crucial that the point i have been making since i began is understood. human rights should not be put in the corner as the issue that you add at the end of the discussion when you have got to raise something difficult. it should be part of all the discussions. so in all of our dialogues, it is fundamental, at the core of every debate: it is not hidden way and it is not sidelined in some kind of box-ticking or checklist approach. stavros lambrinidis is revolutionising all of that even further and building a dynamic in our human rights debates with countries which, frankly, would not have done this before. it is very interesting to me to know which countries are prepared to receive him, work with him, talk with him and engage with him, at both government and civil society level. he will precede me in my journey to bahrain for the gulf cooperation council and will be spending time in the middle east. he spends time with our strategic partners. this is something we need to build on and develop. this is our first eu special representative and this is the first term of office for a high representative/vice-president. we can do an awful lot more, but i think the progress we have made is really significant. finally, regarding our ability to support freedom of religion and belief, it is very important that we understand the situation of so many people of faith across the world. some of you focused, in your debate, on christians. there are real challenges for some christian groups in parts of the world right now. there are also challenges for groups from other faiths and religions in other parts of the world right now. we have to stand up for the right to believe, the right to express beliefs and the right to be able to see them as part of who you are. to go back to the point i made at the end of my first speech: the only thing you need to have for human rights to apply to you is to be human. nothing else – not what colour you are, what gender you are, whether you are lesbian, gay, transsexual or bisexual, whatever you are: you just have to be human. as long as we remember that and capture that in everything we do in our relations across the world, i believe we will serve our public well.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to speak first of all in this debate on the recommendations in which the european parliament refers to the european union guidelines on the protection and promotion of religious freedom. the report by mrs andrikienė is an important document. first, everyone has the right to freedom of religion or belief, and at the same time this right to freedom of belief and to prevent its violation must be our common priority the priority of the union and of parliament. because that law is repeatedly broken. in many parts of the world, we have to deal with persecution, including violence against religious communities and minorities, and we often talk about that in this room. in many cases, the persecution has taken a toll on the health and life of these people. for example, up to 170,000 christians are killed each year. the defence of human rights is also the defence of the right to respect for religious freedom, and this is what we are dealing with and this is underlined by the treaty of lisbon. a particular obligation applies to our partners who have a privileged relationship with the european union, for example in the european neighbourhood policy, but also to all other partners. and it's also worth noting some of the paradoxes that often events like the arab spring, which led to democratization, which we expected to bring about democratic change and greater respect for human rights, in many cases led to an increase in religious persecution. this is the case, for example, with the copts in egypt, and it is also the case in syria today. it is therefore very good that these recommendations are being made and that we will have the right to discuss this with the council and the high representative in the future.
mr. chairman, please! in its report on media freedom in the world, the european parliament recognises that governments have the primary responsibility for guaranteeing and protecting, and for restricting, press and media freedom. it's also about the abuse of the law by the government. so 14 sections of this document are devoted to digitization. the european parliament sees in digitalisation not only an increase in the level of information, but also, as it says, a concern for totalitarian regimes. it also expresses concern at the mass surveillance and censorship activities. unfortunately, this is the current policy of the polish authorities blocking access to the digital multiplex of the only catholic television in poland telewizja trwam. in defense of the station, 2.5 million signatures were collected, and hundreds of thousands of people demonstrated in the streets of cities. i have already raised this issue in the european parliament and i am still waiting for an official response from both parliament and the european commission.
mr. chairman, please! in the context of today's debate, i would like to draw attention to the situation of journalists in turkey. i'm not just talking about the current riots, but the general freedom of speech and the public's right to know. however, we cannot avoid analyzing these riots and we should note that turkish media corporations are not capable of independent reporting. while in the city center, the police brutally suppressed the demonstrations, including in front of the tv stations, almost all tv channels broadcast documentaries or programs that had nothing to do with the current situation in the city. why is this? i think one of the reasons is fear, after all. as the head of the ad hoc delegation to monitor the trials of journalists in turkey, i deal on a daily basis with the trials of journalists who are arrested for covering topics that are inconvenient for the authorities in ankara. how many reporters are there? - we don't know. we still do not have accurate data on the number of journalists detained and the number of cases currently brought against journalists. some sources say that turkey now has the highest number of imprisoned journalists in the world, ahead of iran and china. of course, arrests should not stand in the way of the reliable transmission of information, because the value of freedom of speech and freedom of the press is the foundation without which democracy cannot exist.
mr. chairman, please! much of the report we are voting on tomorrow is about promoting and protecting media freedom around the world, but we must remember that to effectively promote this freedom, the european union itself must look after its own credibility. the commitments on media and pluralism contained in the charter of fundamental rights must therefore be implemented in all countries. only then will we be able to support the candidate countries, the eastern partnership countries and other countries in the world effectively. meanwhile, a case like greece will be made up, and we will be shamed and ashamed of it for years to come. it takes away our credibility. the local media needs personal attention, and i wanted to bring that to the fore. there is no direct gagging of journalists, but there is a financial dependence that often prevents journalists from writing, speaking and feeling that they live in a free country. and it's this financial dependence on the various local herdsmen that acts as the bogeyman. i also wanted to take this opportunity to highlight the role played in various international fora, not only by government agencies but also by journalistic organisations such as the association of european journalists.
madam president! i'd like to start by congratulating the author on my colleague, mp millán mon. he has produced a very interesting and competent report on a very important subject, the transatlantic relationship. in this context, the european-american relationship is of particular importance, so let's focus on that. this significance is important to both sides, both militarily, politically and economically. suffice it to say that eu investment in the us is eight times greater than in china and india combined, and us investment in the eu is three times greater than in all of asia. the average daily turnover is close to eur 2 billion. but it's not just statistics. economists estimate that this intense economic cooperation has created some 15 million jobs. i am convinced that the announced creation of a transatlantic free trade and investment area will create many, many more. i also hope that such a strengthened partnership will increase the strength of our collective influence on global political realities. and there's something to fight for. human rights and civil liberties, which are so dear to us, will not be universal without european-american cooperation to defend or even promote them. that doesn't mean our relationship isn't problematic. suffice it to mention the recent history of us surveillance of internet and telephone activity of europeans as well, or the requirement for visas to enter the us for some european citizens. we should also address these issues in our partnership, because it cannot be just economic or political, it must also deliver concrete positive results that affect the lives of ordinary citizens.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i would like to congratulate mr millán mona on his excellent, well-balanced and important report, which is as important as transatlantic relations. and of course the axis of those relations, and the most important element of those relations, is the relationship between the european union, the countries of the european union and the united states. we have much in common - as many speakers have said before - values, history, economic relations and, of course, political relations. we also share an important responsibility - our shared responsibility, the european union's and the united states' - for global security. the united states and the countries of the european union are the backbone of nato, and of course within this alliance we guarantee security to our member states and to the rest of the world. you can't forget that. so, of course, being friends and talking (as we usually do between friends) about all the doubts and problems, about the recent reports about prism, we have to remember one thing: all these doubts need to be clarified, just like between friends, but they cannot stop the process. the process that may be the most important process in the modern world.
in writing. a closer relationship between the european union and the united states is in the interest of both parties. the adoption of a joint strategy will strengthen the influence of both sides in shaping world policy. the enlarged partnership would also benefit other countries. we must keep in mind the international situation the growing importance of asian countries is pushing both europe and the united states into the shadows. that's why this initiative is so necessary. the inclusion of other atlantic countries can have very positive consequences for the promotion of democratic ideals, the fight against climate change and maritime security. the eu and the us have signed a transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) as part of the wider transatlantic partnership. experts predict that closer economic cooperation will bring many benefits to both sides. it will lead to growth and jobs. europe is already the united states' most important trading partner, and the united states remains europe's most important trading partner. the total value of this trade is one third of the total value of world trade. however, it is worrying that, according to an impact assessment carried out by the european commission, european producers of bioethanol, meat and sugar may be affected by the trade agreement. the second very important issue is the difference in approach to food-related risks.
in writing. fellow workers and colleagues! i am aware that the problems of mali should be considered in the context of the whole region. i stress the need to pursue the objectives of the eu sahel strategy of march 2011, as repeatedly confirmed in the council conclusions. it pointed to the interdependence of the determinants of regional security. structural problems, social dispersion and weak government control over large areas of the state are linked to the region's exposure to terrorist movements, illegal migration, arms and drug trafficking and illegal exploitation of natural resources. the revision of the strategy and its adaptation to current regional needs is crucial. the eu and the un and other international partners should be closely coordinated. the aim should be to avoid duplication of effort and to optimise the use of resources. poland is ready to share with the malian authorities and social partners the experience gained during the period of political and economic transformation. we can pursue cooperation in the framework of the community for democracy, of which mali is a founding and active member. poland is currently supporting the eu advisory and training mission in mali by sending 20 instructors. we're also negotiating the transfer of aid to the malian army. i am concerned about the humanitarian consequences of the conflict in mali and hope that the un humanitarian aid will contribute to improving the situation in that country. in 2012 and 2013, poland provided pln 2,4 million to mali for this purpose.
madam president! many of us, and many observers, many publicists, think that this is the moment when we have to send our troops to war with terrorists, that this is the most difficult moment. there are dramatic moments, there are sad moments, when our friends are killed, our soldiers are killed. but we have another challenge today, perhaps even more serious, perhaps not so dramatic, but equally serious, and that is the challenge of helping the whole country, which must build its state, its structures, which must continue to care and fight for the security of its citizens, which must build economic structures, which must have something to live on, which must have a way to exist in the modern world. and in all of this we as the european union can help. we have done our job, or we are still doing our job in a military sense, but today we will have to help build the structures of the state. the financial, organizational and training assistance of the european union will certainly be invaluable and irreplaceable. i therefore welcome the partnership and cooperation agreement between the european union and afghanistan. the help of the european institutions and of all the member states of the european union will be needed.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. in the past, preferential access to the european market has not translated into sustainable growth or sufficient integration of the acp group of countries into the world economy. the unilateral trade preferences granted by the european union were inconsistent with the principle of non-discrimination laid down by the world trade organisation. in 2007, it became clear that the negotiations on the conclusion of new comprehensive acp-eu economic partnership agreements would not be completed until the end of this year, when the wto derogation for acps on the trade rules agreed in the cotonou agreement was due to expire. a temporary solution has been found in the form of transitional framework agreements, preliminary economic partnership agreements. this ensured compliance with wto rules by allowing preferential access to the union market while negotiations on comprehensive full epas were still ongoing. of the regional group of central african states, only cameroon concluded a transitional agreement as recently as 2007, but this agreement can only become binding and effective if ratified by the national assembly. that's never happened before. the remaining central african states with the exception of congo and gabon, which have benefited from the generalised system of preferences since 1 january 2008 are the least developed countries with unrestricted duty-free access to the european market under the 'everything but arms' programme. the interim economic partnership agreement is an intermediate step towards deeper regional integration, which can be achieved by concluding a full regional agreement covering the whole of the central african region, not just individual countries. these countries should make political commitments to conclude negotiations on a mutually beneficial agreement, which must also take into account differences between countries and differences in development.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. − madam president, it is not always easy to marry transparency with business opportunity. this directive brings data closer to citizens, while creating a potential for business and growth which we seek in time of crisis. my general approach to re-use was to keep it as open and user-friendly as possible. i stressed two main issues: the format in which public information is made available for re-use, and charges imposed by the public bodies concerned. firstly i insisted that a clear preference was given to machine-readable formats, with other formats possible but exceptional. we also agree that open formats should be promoted, as should the use of electronic means when processing requests for re-use. my second message was to keep charges for re-use as low as possible. one should realise that lower charges for re-use will only attract business and boost innovation, and also bring benefit to the end consumer who would otherwise be charged more for the reused base products and services. i want to thank the rapporteur for putting those things into the report.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? i would like to thank all the members, advisers, organisations and institutions who have been involved in the work on my report. i have to say, the interest in this subject has been very high. although i did not support many of the amendments proposed to the draft report during the work of the development committee, i am glad that the topic of future development goals has attracted, and will continue to attract, so much attention and commitment. the millennium development goals set in 2000 have been met with success in middle-income and developing countries. however, we still have two years to achieve these goals more fully, which have not yet been achieved. the debate on future targets beyond 2015 is necessary and important, but it should not diminish our determination to achieve the targets we have set for ourselves. in the case of development objectives, the european union is only one element in a much wider partnership. it is therefore important to develop and adopt a common and effective and ambitious european union position on the principles and objectives that should be part of the post-2015 development framework. i thank the european commission, and in particular commissioner piebalgs, for working really hard to develop such a common position and for his activity in the un high-level panel, which will of course have even more to say on this matter than we do. our european position will be more forceful if member states fully implement their previous commitments on official development assistance. this may not be the right moment, but i would remind you that to date only four member states have fulfilled their earlier promises. the report recognises that there should be a single, comprehensive and integrated framework with clear benchmarks covering key issues related to sustainable development. the framework should also be universal and global, promoting prosperity, human rights and well-being for all, and defining the direct and active involvement of developing countries in its creation and implementation, but also the role of rich countries. it is also worth emphasising the need to maintain coherence between trade, agriculture and fisheries policies (as we discussed this morning, the epa) and development policies. any shortcomings in the coherence of european policies will always hamper the achievement of development objectives. another important issue is the need to reframe the global partnership for development. this is one of the least well-realized goals of the current development agenda. a renewed and strengthened global partnership for development will be crucial for the implementation of the post-2015 agenda and for ensuring effective accountability mechanisms at all levels. the global goals post-2015 should also include what will be a continuation of the millennium development goals and the sustainable development goals. i think that building two parallel sets, i.e. the development goals and the sustainable development goals, on a global scale would be a mistake. in this parliament we agree that the eradication of poverty, which is the main and treaty objective of eu development cooperation, and the achievement of sustainable social and environmental development should become mandatory priorities on the global agenda. the objectives we will adopt and their effective implementation require respect for the principles of democratic governance and human rights, transparency and accountability of institutions and actors at all levels, and a strong civil society systematically involved in the democratic process. and i'm also convinced that without good governance, we're not going to be able to achieve our primary goal of ending poverty on a sustainable basis, and the positive examples that we've seen around the world have mostly been in countries that have been very good governance. so the fact that this aspect is and will be emphasized is, i think, very important.
madam president! congratulations to the reporter! but i also ask for a little common sense in this debate! if i hear the voice of my colleague in the european parliament in this room 15 minutes ago, saying: let us focus on development goals and not on armaments, i have the impression that i am in some kind of matrix, in some kind of virtual world, because a serious politician should respect his constituents and say serious, realistic things, and not move in a completely virtual world. i have the impression, unfortunately, that some of our voters are treating this debate as a secondary topic, because today people who are unemployed in the european union or who are threatened with unemployment are primarily interested in the crisis and how it affects their lives. and when we talk about development aid, we have to remember that sometimes the countries we help are very bad at implementing aid, that they are simply wasting it or that it is corrupt.
madam president! i would like to start by congratulating mr kaczmarek on his excellent report. we are approaching the 2015 deadline for achieving the millennium development goals. i am glad that some of the goals, such as halving extreme poverty, have been achieved. of course, it is undeniable that many others still require further intensive actions which will not be possible without ensuring an adequate level of co-financing. however, i cannot agree with the amendment tabled for today's sitting to make the commitment to allocate 0.7% of gross national income to development aid binding legislation. i believe that such a solution, especially in times of crisis, could seriously jeopardise the budgetary stability of the member states and have a negative impact on the implementation of other very important policies of the european union.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? i'm not going to let you do this. i thank you for a very interesting debate and i want to assure you that many of the issues that have been raised here are also being discussed at the un level, at this moment, in a high-level panel. on 30 may, the so-called image targets were adopted by this panel. i'm going to mention them because they address the needs that we've seen in this room: poverty eradication, achieving gender equality, providing quality education, ensuring healthy lives, food security and good nutrition, sustainable energy, job creation, growth for all, sustainable management of resources and raw materials, good governance and effective institutions, stable and peaceful communities, global and long-term financing. ladies and gentlemen! it shows that what the un is working on is compatible with our debates. i think it's very important and i'm optimistic that we'll get a global agreement. i also wanted to say that the delegation from the committee on development will also be attending this meeting in new york in september, and i hope that we will be able to convey our position at the international level.
in writing. over time, lessons should be drawn from the millennium development goals project, which has been running since 2000. the targets set 13 years ago are to be achieved by 2015. we're already seeing the first effects of this: the number of people living in extreme poverty has been cut in half, and the percentage of people without access to an improved drinking water source has been cut in half. in the case of development objectives, the european union is only one element in a much wider partnership. it is therefore important to develop and adopt a common and effective european union position on the principles and objectives that should be part of the post-2015 development framework. it is important to focus on sectors that have a real impact on malnutrition, such as health, education, water, sanitation and agriculture. mr kaczmarek was very specific about the issues that should be in the report. i agree with him that without good governance, we will not be able to achieve our primary goal of eliminating poverty permanently. that's why the mp kaczmarek can count on my support in the vote.
madam president! in our resolution we express reservations about those parts of the agreement which do not reflect the position of the european parliament and the values of the european union. we hope that will change in the future. we therefore call on all parties to review the unsatisfactory clauses in the third review of the cotonou agreement, including the explicit introduction of the principle of non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. it's what mr. michael cashman and commissioner piebalgs have been talking about. the problem, in my view, is that some of our acp partners do not recognise the universality of the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. we should focus on convincing them that this is not our whim, this is not our fantasy, that this is just a universal principle and that we are not doing this because we want to force them to accept something that we have invented, but to accept something that we think is universal. the list of issues to be considered in the third review is long. some of them were mentioned by the rapporteur. for example, there is no commitment by the parties to give greater importance to sound budgetary management. mechanisms to strengthen the monitoring, review and enforcement of the cotonou agreement itself have not been provided. no declaration was made on the future financing of eu-acp cooperation. there's no reference to trade and finance, and there's no specific case for promoting microcredit. so the task before the third review is a big one.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? we have no amendments to this report, but we have a dozen or so split votes. i would like to point out that most of these split votes are for provisions that were not in the original draft but were included as a result of amendments voted by the development committee.
in writing. − the stepping-stone epa agreement with cameroon is a great starting point for the negotiation of full epa deals with the entire central africa region, which can bring many long-term benefits in the future. it sends an important signal to the central africa region as a whole about the importance of the trade relationship. in addition, i agree with the objectives of this recommendation that include the promotion of regional integration, economic cooperation and good governance in the central african region. the recommendation effectively highlights the necessity of the epa agreement with cameroon, and i am pleased to support it. i voted in favor of this recommendation.
in writing. − the rapporteur supported the request for approval of the transitional agreement as it would be an important signal for the whole of the central african region, showing the importance of trade relations. a continental free trade area will only become a reality if regional groupings in africa are further integrated.
in writing. − i believe that the second amendment to the cotonou agreement tackles the right issues in today’s developing countries. i am pleased to see that there is more focus on the new millennium development goals for 2013. these are especially important since they have the possibility of decreasing the population numbers of extreme poverty from more than a billion to a couple million. in the last 15 years, we managed to decrease poverty by about a billion. at the time, the number of people in extreme poverty was over 2 billion and the thought of eradicating poverty was thought to be an impossible task. today, this has changed and is an important reason why focus on the millennium development goals is so significant. in addition, i fully agree with the need to prevent the abuse of human rights. that being said, the benefits from the changes in this recommendation are indeed tangible. i voted in favor of this recommendation.
in writing. − i supported the request for consent to the conclusion of the agreement as it will give the commission and the european external action service the opportunity to exert effective pressure during the two years preceding the third of the five scheduled reviews of the agreement.
mr. chairman, please! i particularly liked the first point in ms schaake's report: 'i recognise that governments have the primary responsibility for guaranteeing and protecting press and media freedom; i point out that governments also have the primary responsibility for restricting press and media freedom'. and i agree with my previous speakers that we should look in our own backyard more often. i am sorry to say that the words in the report also apply to my country and its governments. the polish authorities, for reasons that are not clear, are restricting catholic trwam tv's access to the digital platform, despite the fact that more than 2.5 million people in poland have voted for this access. one in ten polish adults wants this tv, and the polish authorities have blocked access to the digital platform for two years, and i regret to say this in this house today.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? freedom of expression is a universal human right, and the media must operate unfettered, for only then can they fully realize themselves as public goods. in addition to traditional newsrooms, online newsrooms are becoming increasingly popular, often much faster and maintaining direct contact with the audience. today, virtually every citizen has the opportunity to express his thoughts publicly. online media platforms have increased the importance of freedom of speech and the right to information, becoming the most effective mechanism for controlling power today. therefore, any actions that lead to restrictions on the network, as observed in many non-democratically governed countries, require strong opposition. in relation to journalistic work, cases of publication penalty are particularly reprehensible. the difficulty of exercising this profession can also be observed in the member states, for example in poland. as we support the cause of media freedom around the world, we must also nurture its independence at home.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr schaake on freedom of the press and media in the world. despite the fact that freedom of expression is a universal human right and free and pluralistic media is one of the foundations of democracy, the rights of journalists and media freedom are still not respected in many countries. journalists and bloggers are often advocates for freedom and human rights, and in many cases they face persecution, imprisonment and even death for doing their work conscientiously. the perpetrators of these crimes usually go unpunished. governments often abuse their power under the pretext of fighting terrorism or extremism, bend the rules by accusing them of blasphemy, defamation or 'damage to the state abroad', or apply pressure, whether political or financial, on media workers. the attempts to create a 'closed internet' and the various censorship and surveillance measures that go with it are also of concern. it is in our common interest to maintain and strengthen media freedom and independence in the eu and globally. i hope that this report will encourage the relevant institutions, including the european commission, to take appropriate action, including better monitoring of the situation of media in third countries, including those in transition.
in writing. - i voted for the report on freedom of the press and media in the world. those who think that freedom of the press and media is restricted in poland are wrong. freedom of speech is not in any way threatened in poland. we have full media pluralism and full freedom of speech. criticism of this is often motivated by political or financial considerations. i accept that because freedom of speech means you can say even stupid things. this criticism is the best proof that we have freedom of speech.
in writing. − freedom of media and the press has always been an important issue for the european parliament. there are many cases where writers get arrested for their opinions about their government or journalist are detained for their work. my one concern with the approach proposed by this report is the potential for overregulation within and outside of eu as it could cause some problems. however, i think that this report approaches this problem effectively. it reinforces the basic principles of freedom and democracy in relation to the media and the press. it tries to increase support and education through various programs. it ensures that freedom of media and expression plays a higher role in eu’s relationships with its immediate neighbors in the context of trade and association negotiations. i support this strategy. i voted in favor of this report.
in writing. − the right to freedom of expression is at the heart of democracy and is essential to the enjoyment of other rights, such as the right to development, dignity and self-fulfilment of every human individual. restrictions on freedom of expression have serious consequences and should be applied only to the very limited extent provided for by law. the increasing digitalisation of media is increasing the level of information and giving impetus to critical thinking. i therefore agree that the union should take steps to ensure freedom of the press and media and to guarantee that this freedom is respected.
in writing. − open data policies promoting the wide availability and re-use of public sector information will play an important role in the development of new services based on innovative ways of combining and using such information, stimulating economic growth and promoting social engagement. to this end, it is necessary to level the playing field for the authorisation of the re-use of documents. the change in the policy of open access to public data ensures that all citizens have access to data that is collected on behalf of public sector bodies using tax funds.
mr. chairman, please! well, i voted against the proposed recommendations for eu diplomacy. it is a new institution, established in 2010, but it is also still focusing on internal matters, on recruiting hundreds of staff to the 140 eu offices abroad. the eu's role in the world is to help the world, and the eu's role in the world is to help the world. for example, poland doesn't have embassies in many countries. in such situations, citizens of poland, but also of other countries, should always count on the consular support of the union representations. these are either concerned with themselves or with the conduct of the great eu policy. i think they should be much more concerned with the problems of the citizens of the union.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the increasing activity of european diplomacy requires constant monitoring of its functioning with a view to systematic improvement and to gradually eliminating shortcomings. the key issue now seems to be to increase its openness and budgetary transparency. the disproportion between the participation of workers from the new member states and the old 15 is still worrying. however, i do not think that increasing the role of the high representative as initiator and political leader is the desirable solution. moreover, imposing a clear foreign and security policy on countries cannot be accepted. the centralization of this field will not be a favourable solution, let alone a constructive one. similar doubts are raised by the demands to consider qualified majority voting in the area of the common foreign policy and the abolition of the rotating presidency in the council's working groups. this will result in a reduction in the competences of states and in the implementation of their foreign policy priorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief. freedom of religion is one of the fundamental conditions for maintaining peace and security. the violation of freedom often leads to violence and hatred. minority religions should be guaranteed the right to worship freely and to participate in public life. religious persecution is unacceptable. the eu's role in combating this phenomenon is important, as the religion whose followers are most frequently attacked in the world is christianity.
in writing. − voted in favor of this recommendation. i am in support of the recommendations on the draft of the eu guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief. these recommendations cover the areas of the draft that were left out and that are essential for a successful implementation. i believe that the guidelines are now complete.
in writing. − the right to freedom of religion or belief, including theistic belief, the right to be non-believer and the right to change religion or belief are fundamental human rights and all states have an obligation to provide effective protection to all persons under their jurisdiction. since discrimination on grounds of religion or belief still exists in all regions of the world, promoting the right to freedom of religion or belief and preventing its violation should be a priority in the eu's external policy.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the united states remains europe's closest and most important partner, historically, culturally and economically. close security cooperation is also important to ensure that the current geopolitical order is maintained. i look forward to the fruitful outcome of the opening of free trade negotiations, which many european citizens and businesses are eagerly awaiting. the eu's policy towards washington certainly requires closer coordination here. four member states of the community, including poland, continue to have a visa system. the removal of these restrictions will be a sign of a lasting cooperation and a high level of mutual trust. i ask the high representative to continue to be active in pursuing this objective. i am, however, positive about the idea of extending euro-atlantic cooperation to the latin american region, whose integration is essential for economic development and contributes to political stability. the countries of the region are important exporters of a wide range of essential raw materials, including energy.
in writing. - i supported the report by mr francisco josé millán mona on the eu's role in promoting the wider transatlantic partnership. despite the global crisis, the eu and the us should continue to play a significant role in global politics by encouraging cooperation between other major international players, such as brazil, mexico, india and china. the report addresses key issues in eu-us bilateral relations, such as the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership and barack obama's pledges to close the guantanamo bay detention camp. the report also addresses the atlantic and global agenda, highlighting the role that canada can play in broader atlantic cooperation, calls for the us to re-sign and ratify the treaty of rome and the need to give the g20 a new impetus. the report also highlights the need to jointly tackle threats to global security, including cybercrime, piracy, trafficking in human beings, arms and drugs, and the moral imperative to commit to tackling climate change. the report also addresses important current issues such as the conflicts in the international arena, including syria, and calls for further support for democratic change in the world. i therefore hope that this report will be an important step towards deepening cooperation within the transatlantic partnership.
in writing. − i voted in favor of this report. the report addresses the plan of action that is needed for eu-us relations to function efficiently and properly. i am in full support of the initiatives that this report welcomes and suggests. the us is the eu’s most important partner and the role of the eu in promoting that relationship needs to be its priority. i advocate the announcement of negotiations for a transatlantic trade and investment partnership. i also agree on the need for coordination between the eu and its member states and the us on many current issues and conflicts. i believe that one key issue that the us and eu should address together is cuba. brussels and washington should work hand-in-hand to promote the human rights of cuban citizens and pro-democratic reforms on that island.
in writing. − the transatlantic partnership is based on strong political, cultural, economic and historical ties, as well as shared values such as freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law. in a globalised world, therefore, the eu and the us should play a key role in shaping the international environment and jointly resolving regional conflicts and tackling global problems.
in writing. - the european union is one of the richest and most economically developed regions in the world. so it should be concerned with the development of poorer countries. the aim of eradicating global poverty is an important objective from the point of view of social solidarity, but also for pragmatic reasons such as reducing crime and strengthening peace and stability. the millennium development goals, set by the united nations in 2010, have brought about many positive changes. the new development framework for the period after 2015 should be set in such a way as to continue this activity in the most effective way. the report addressed a number of important issues, including the fact that the union should be committed to ensuring stability in the world and to developing international partnerships. it is also important to develop strategies to encourage action by institutions at different levels involved in developing countries, and to seek coordination and improved cooperation between institutions at global, national and local levels. it is important that the report also focuses on the non-income aspects of poverty: gender inequality, violence against women and social exclusion. the report proposes to broaden the range of indicators used to assess the situation in developing countries, which will help to better assess the complex situation in these countries. a wider range of indicators is needed, as gdp growth alone does not sufficiently describe the state of the country.
in writing. − i have lent my support to the millennium development goals – defining the post-2015 framework (2012/2289(ini)). while i do not support certain aspects of the document, i do find that the overall legislation is needed for the eu to proceed in the achievement of the millennium goals. this document provides for many necessities that, particularly in this time of economic lag, are needed to assist those who are most affected. with that being said, it is important to “take into account the lessons learned from the current mdgs and, at the same time, consider that the global landscape has dramatically changed over the last decade: poverty is taking on new dimensions, differences between developing countries have increased, several countries have become donors, while others, facing high levels of inequality, continue to be highly vulnerable to crisis shocks (climate change, food crises, demographic changes, refugees, etc.). these challenges are interrelated and need to be addressed together by all countries”. furthermore, as was stated in the report, it is vital that we maintain our dedication toward health and education, good governance, while maintaining a human rights-based approach in all of our continued efforts.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mrs cornelissen rightly mentioned that russia is recognised as a strategic partner of the european union, as stated in official documents. it is worth considering whether it makes sense to maintain this strategic partnership, because it is difficult for a country that continues to hide the murderers of magnitsky, that does not allow the free activity of political parties, hinders the activity of ngos, represents people like navalny or khodorkovsky to be a strategic partner of the european union. it is worth considering whether the deteriorating human rights situation in russia, and the still undemocratic and unfair elections that are taking place there, allow us to continue to pretend that it is a strategic partner of the union, if we assume that the union is based on values such as human rights,
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. nearly 150 meps have signed up to the initiative to nominate memorials for the nobel peace prize. i just wanted to say thank you again from the bottom of my heart. the list includes the president of parliament, the heads of all the political groups and many distinguished members of this house. this is, of course, a good response to what the russian authorities are doing to organizations like memorial, to decent people like its leaders. that's obviously not an adequate answer. today, in view of what is happening in russia, with regard to ngos, opposition parties, journalists, lawyers, human rights defenders, we must appeal to the european institutions, to the high representative, to the president of the european commission, to the president of the council, to all the member states, to the parliaments of the member states, to the governments of the member states, to pay attention to human rights and civil liberties, which are unfortunately being violated by the russian authorities, in all our talks with russia, at all levels.
on behalf of the ecr group. i was one of the signatories of the petition to have the russian memorial awarded the prestigious nobel peace prize. i think it's like we have two russians. it's worth talking about both. the point is that the first russia, the state russia, is a russia that consistently uses force, violence, violates human rights. the other seems to be a weak russia. it is also weak because of the inaction and the powerlessness of the european union, because the major countries of the european union often have double standards, double standards; they choose countries where they condemn human rights violations, and they prefer to keep quiet about human rights violations in russia or china, because it's nice to trade with those countries. and i think that this kind of practice should be severely stigmatized in this parliament.
mr. chairman, please! russia, which has produced both great and terrible men, sakharov and solzhenitsyn, as well as stalin and the bolsheviks, cannot respect its citizens. invariably, in various forms, they are meant to be just the building blocks of state power. today's russia cannot fully come to terms with the stalinist past, cannot appreciate the fact that the state is a strong force of the freedom of its citizens and their ability to self-organize, to build a civil society. the european parliament's sakharov prize for peace and freedom is one such award. just as solzhenitsyn and sakharov were once the unwanted pride of russia, so too are memorial activists and independent journalists today. it is absurd that they and other civil society organizations are now trying to discredit themselves as foreign agents, suggesting that they are acting to the detriment of their homeland. we must help russia overcome this unjustified fortress-in-the-battle syndrome. you have to say to them, straight to their faces: "you are a great, brave, creative nation, but you cannot build your strength on persecuting the opposition, on holding political prisoners, on liquidating the free press and murdering journalists and critics of the current government". (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. i agree with ms landsbergis that the title could be stronger, but it is an opportunity to debate and to say important and relevant words.
mr. chairman, please! speaking of the rule of law in russia or the lack of such a rule, it is impossible not to remember the ongoing investigation in russia regarding the disaster that occurred on april 10, 2010, in which the president of the republic of poland lech kaczyński and 95 other people were killed. the russian investigation is now in its fourth year and the russian authorities have refused to hand over key evidence, namely the wreckage of the plane and the so-called black boxes, to the polish authorities despite repeated requests, which has made it very difficult for the polish investigation, which is also ongoing. i want to say that the russian authorities have had a lot of time to examine all the necessary evidence, and that the refusal to release this crucial, very important for the polish investigation, evidence is not the proper practice from the point of view of the rule of law, and i want to express my opposition to such practices.
mr. chairman, please! in recent months, we have seen a clear tightening of policy by the russian authorities. the beginning of the trial of alexei navalny, the flight abroad of garry kasparov and the economist sergei martin, and the persecution of ngos supported by foreign donors, clearly show that disturbing things are beginning to happen in our eastern neighbor. we are increasingly hearing that russia has become an authoritarian state, where all expressions of freedom and independence are persecuted and eliminated. the change in the internal policy of the russian authorities is forcing the union to revise its strategy towards that country. all indications are that we must say goodbye to the modernisation state, because it is clear that the kremlin has no intention of fulfilling its commitments. it is necessary to find new instruments of influence. the european union should focus on supporting russian civil society, leaving the dialogue with the russian authorities to the member states.
mr. chairman, please! it's good that we have this resolution and that it focuses on ngos. without ngos, there is no civil society. civil society has to organize. and in those ngos that are transnational, for example, the issue of peace, which is the issue that the memorial is dealing with, is a transnational issue. and so it happens that the funding is transnational, and to use the word "agent" in relation to the great work that these organizations do, "agent" with adjectives and nouns and whatever, is a vile slander, a vile lie and a disgusting disregard for what is most important in democracy and organized civil society. stalin said that a lie repeated 100 times becomes a reality, it gets into the head. well, goebbels said, although stalin said it too, that a lie repeated many times becomes a reality. and here we have something like this again: the word "disgusting" disgusting something wonderful in society.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? this year was supposed to be a time of change for the better in azerbaijan ahead of the presidential elections scheduled for the autumn. in this context, the attempts to intimidate the opposition, in particular the arrest of the opposition candidate ilgar mammadov, the director of the school of political studies established in baku under the auspices of the council of europe, are worrying. in light of the widespread repression in the country, we expect the azerbaijani authorities to fulfil their obligations under the european convention on human rights, especially before taking up their rotating presidency of the council of europe in 2014, as respect for media freedom and the right to peaceful assembly is a condition for the country's membership of the council of europe, the osce, and the association agreement currently being negotiated with the european union. we strongly condemn the illegal detention of ilgar mammadov, who has been deprived of a fair trial, and call for his immediate release, as well as that of all other political prisoners punished for criticizing the government, and for the azerbaijani authorities to take immediate action to reform the country's judicial system, ensuring a fair trial for every detainee.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? imprisoning your opponents, putting in jail and harassing people who could possibly take the place of the president, is something scandalous, especially in countries that (and here it must be emphasized) somehow try to show that they have democratic institutions. because after all, azerbaijan is a member of the council of europe and is due to take over the presidency in 2014, which we have talked about here several times today. it is covered by the eastern partnership. azerbaijan and the european union are negotiating an association agreement, and meanwhile, the competition is in prison and being treated in a terrible way. i am very grateful to all my colleagues for all the speeches which actually required a much stronger resolution; there were many voices which demanded a much stronger voice in the defence of mr ilgar mammadov. and we all join in those voices, even those who are not in this room.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. azerbaijan, although a party to the european convention on human rights, has not solved the problems of political prisoners. appeals for the release of ilgar mammadov are not working. press freedom is notoriously violated, and in may, parliament tightened penalties for defamation on the internet, for offences related to public gatherings, and regulations governing the establishment of non-governmental organizations. we therefore call on the azerbaijani authorities to ensure the normal functioning of the media and the safety of journalists. uncensored internet access is essential for the development of democracy and the rule of law. it is essential that the association agreement between the union and azerbaijan take into account human rights standards, in particular as regards freedom of the media, freedom of expression, freedom of association and assembly. president barroso is expected to raise these issues during the visit of the president of azerbaijan to brussels next week.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i counted the number of us in this room. there are 32 of us. i would ask mrs thun und hohenstein not to say that all those who are absent share this or that view. they could be here, but they're not. i understand that there are very important reasons why they are not in this room. but let us speak of those who are, and not pretend to our electorate and to the european taxpayers that there are 750 of us here. we're barely over thirty, for one thing. secondly, i very much appreciate the speech, especially on russia, by mrs vergiat of the leftist group, but i would ask you not to interfere in the affairs of our group and not to criticize mr cabrnoch. your group, specifically, on human rights in post-soviet countries, has often spoken in a very strange way, so i'd prefer you to change that rhetoric. (the speaker agreed to answer the two questions raised by the raising of the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
answer questions by raising the 'blue card'. i have the impression that mr häfner did not listen to me with understanding and perhaps misread what i said. i have only said that we should have great respect for the 32 people who are here and who speak for the whole of the european parliament, and not speak of the other members who are not here for various reasons. so i would ask that next time you listen to what i have to say with more understanding. as for mrs vergiat, i was not speaking about this resolution, but about the speeches made by the representatives of your group in other debates.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. azerbaijan is an important gas diversification partner of the european union. the nabucco pipeline, which is under construction, if it is built, will play a vital role in improving the energy security of the european union. we should do our utmost to maintain the best possible relations with that country, and to support its independence from russia and its progress towards democracy. and here's the problem. unfortunately, despite the signs of hope that we see in respecting human rights, it is also unfortunately evident from the electoral calendar that it is not always as we would wish it to be, as the civilized part of the world would wish it to be, which makes human rights standards a condition for good relations between states. unfortunately, the detention and arrest of the opposition candidate in the presidential elections to be held in october is a bad sign of the democratic standards of president aliyev and the current azerbaijani authorities. this calls for a decisive response. it is good that this debate is taking place here today, it is good that this voice is being heard, it is good that it is also reaching the people to whom it is addressed and i hope that it will have the appropriate effect. we must speak out, we must demand respect for human rights, but we must also remember that azerbaijan is not pushed into the hands of russia, which is waiting for it.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. azerbaijan plays an important role in the region, it is also an important economic partner of the european union and hopefully it will become more important, especially in terms of diversifying the supply of energy resources. but that doesn't mean we're going to let go of human rights issues in azerbaijan, because if we are so strictly demanding that our supposedly strategic partner russia respect these human rights, then we should demand the same from our real partner azerbaijan. i therefore ask you not to misinterpret what mr cabrnoch, who is the head of the delegation dealing with this matter, has said. he said clearly that if he was criticising us meps, it was because the delegation he was leading could not work, could not meet, because meps were not coming to work. the ecr is clear on this point, as is shown by the ecr's signature under the resolution.
mr. chairman, please! i'm surprised at the disproportionate nature of our debate. we're attacking azerbaijan, and earlier, i think the debate on russia was pretty soft. the european union has more instruments to exert pressure on russia, especially in the area of human rights. the first example from the shore: we have guaranteed the principle of european energy solidarity in the lisbon treaty. meanwhile, the largest country in the european union, germany, has broken the principle of energy solidarity by driving the nordstream gas pipeline from russia to the bottom of the baltic sea, paying three times the price. they've made huge deals with russia to avoid one of the eu member states, which is poland. in such a situation, we must remember politkovskaya, magnitsky, khodorkovsky, the war in chechnya, the smolensk disaster, so that we do not do business with a country that so dramatically violates human rights. then europe must act resolutions are not enough.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. today we are taking the floor on azerbaijan, another country with european aspirations, where there has been a recent crackdown on those who express different political views. this time, it was ilgar mammadov, a politician who was, who is still, a candidate for president of this country. he was arrested and put in jail as a common murderer, a criminal, not to mention that he is an opposition politician. the arrest of mammadov, known for his democratic initiatives and views, has caused deep concern not only in azerbaijan itself, but also around the world, including here in the european union. in early may, the council of europe called on the azerbaijani authorities to release all political prisoners, but to date there has been no response. this is also reprehensible in view of the fact that next year the country is to assume the six-month chairmanship of the committee of ministers.
in writing. last year we raised the issue of azerbaijan twice in the plenary. unfortunately, in both cases the debate was about the same issue violations of human rights and civil liberties. i am extremely concerned about the recent increase in politically motivated arrests in some eastern partnership countries. the european parliament's ad hoc delegation to georgia, where the former prime minister of georgia, mr iván merabishvili, was imprisoned, ended just a few days ago. this scenario seems to be replicated by the authorities of the other countries in the region. today's resolution refers to the case of the azerbaijani opposition leaders ilgar mammadov and tofiq yaqublu, who have been detained for several months. despite numerous challenges to their release, including from the european court of human rights, the azerbaijani authorities are pressing new charges against the prisoners. the situation is particularly alarming in the light of azerbaijan's presidency of the committee of ministers of the council of europe scheduled for may 2014. the foundation of european integration is respect for democracy and the rule of law. of course, economic issues are important, but we must first of all remember the fundamental values on which the eastern partnership and cooperation with the european union are built. i therefore believe that the european parliament has a duty to respond to clear cases of selective judicial action. this is particularly important now, in the context of the upcoming vilnius partnership summit and the expectations that go with it.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european parliament is once again taking a stand, and i stress this, in defence of the rights of muslims. i would like to remind you of the european parliament's resolution on muslims in china, which was adopted by the whole parliament without a vote of opposition. it's another one of those cases. it seems to show that our attitude to religion as such is not a particular attitude - here we are talking about the very significant resolution of the european parliament on the defence of religion as such, its practice. we are not only referring to the christian religion, we are not only defending it - and this is the religion that in europe, on our continent, is absolutely dominant - but we are also trying to fight, more or less effectively, for the rights of other religions, including muslims.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? the rohingya muslim minority is one of the most persecuted in the world. the violence is manifested in mass arrests, imprisonment, torture, rape, restrictions on freedom of movement and access to education, destruction of property and places of worship. these actions bear the marks of crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing. a million rohingya have already fled to neighboring countries. what we need is an international, independent investigation. it is essential that the burmese authorities guarantee access to humanitarian aid and ensure the freedom of movement of the displaced rohingya, release political prisoners and provide the rohingya population with equal access to citizenship by law. it is necessary to establish an office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights in burma. i also call on the high representative to address this matter urgently in her relations with burma and other asean countries.
the question asked by raising the blue card. madam member, i have a question about aung san suu kyi, because at least in the text of our resolution there is information that aung san suu kyi is protesting against the policy of birth control among rohingya families and protesting against discriminatory laws, so there is a certain inaccuracy here.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you do this. we were all excited about the transformation that was beginning in burma. but it is very important that the changes in burma also include the rights of national and ethnic minorities. without this aspect, burma's return to the international community cannot be considered complete. i will not describe the suffering and persecution that the rohingya are experiencing. other speakers have done it before. i would like to draw attention to one source of this persecution. in my opinion, it is the fact that the rohingya are not recognized as burmese citizens and are denied any civil rights. that is why i believe that one of the most important demands of our resolution is to persuade the burmese government to change its civil rights legislation. we often lament in our urgent debates on thursday that we do not have the instruments to exert effective pressure on countries that violate human rights. this is not the case and i agree with those who spoke about the system of preferential customs duties which has recently been reinstated. we can at least threaten to suspend or reverse it to force the expected changes.
mr. chairman, please! many burmese see the rohingya muslims as illegal immigrants from bangladesh. they are discriminated against in areas such as marriage, education, freedom of movement. the european union should therefore assist burma by actively cooperating in the implementation of the necessary reforms. the priority is to appeal to the burmese government to ensure that its security forces take all measures to protect rohingya muslims from organised violence. it is also necessary to bring to justice those responsible for acts of violence and other abuses. it is also necessary to call on all countries in the region to open their borders to asylum seekers belonging to this minority. it is also important to ensure that the government of burma is supported in the search for long-term solutions that can help to eliminate the root causes of the conflict.
mr. chairman, please! we are once again raising the issue of discrimination against the rohingya muslim minority in the state of arakan in western burma, a minority which the un considers to be one of the most persecuted in the world. for decades, they have been subjected to travel bans, restricted access to health and education, land confiscations, and forced labor. since june 2012, the rohingya minority has experienced another wave of violence, and victims of violent clashes with government security forces have been denied access to justice and humanitarian assistance. this new wave of attacks on the muslim minority must be strongly condemned. we call on the burmese authorities to end all forms of persecution and discrimination against members of the community and to prosecute those guilty of inciting violence, and to revise the 1982 civil rights act to guarantee the full enjoyment of civil rights for the rohingya minority. without normalizing the status of this muslim minority, the burmese government risks further unrest and instability in the country.
mr. chairman, please! the people of burma have suffered terrible things over the past few decades. today, burma has a chance to join the family of democratic states, to build a normal state. in this process, of course, we as the european union should help with advice and financial support; we should help build democratic institutions, a properly functioning democracy and a normal state. this normal state must also include human rights and civil liberties and must guarantee the freedom of minorities (all kinds of minorities, ethnic or religious). i hope that a european parliament observation mission will be present in burma during the forthcoming elections. i hope that those of us who go there will make a very strong point in meetings with burmese politicians of all political parties that human rights, including the rights of the rohingya minority, must be guaranteed.
mr. chairman, please! the commission proposal amending the port state control directive proposes many solutions which are in line with those of the 2006 maritime labour convention. i think that these are mostly good solutions, which are another step towards improving the working conditions of seafarers, regardless of their nationality and the flag of the ship. nevertheless, in my opinion, some of the solutions proposed by the rapporteur go too far. the requirement to carry out more frequent periodic inspections, to increase the number of inspectors with specific competencies and to provide adequate training imposes additional administrative and financial burdens on states. furthermore, it seems to me unjustified to reduce the time taken to implement the directive from 12 to 1 month from the date of its entry into force. due to the legislative procedures in force in each country, this deadline may not be met.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to refer in my speech to the debate on whether it is necessary to include the technical testing of motorcycles and scooters. well, i'm all for that. the truth is that more and more motorcycles and scooters are coming to the european market. they're not the vehicles they used to be. these are often heavier and more complex vehicles. they therefore constitute an existing and growing threat. i believe that the adoption of legal instruments without these types of vehicles will not bring about a significant improvement in safety and environmental protection throughout the union. if parliament did not do that, i think it would be a very serious mistake.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. given the seriousness of the problem of vehicle technical research, we should focus on vehicle categories, including scooters and motorcycles, as these are full-fledged road users. however, the questionable state of the art of these vehicles may represent a real danger to road traffic. it should also be stressed that roadworthiness testing is also an important element of our safety. they should be conducted by appropriately trained, trained and independent diagnostics. i also think it is right to exclude historic cars from eu legislation. member states should have more freedom to define their own national requirements for the definition and testing of such vehicles. in addition, i feel that the proposed definition of vehicles of historic value is rather rigid.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the difficult situation of the energy-intensive industry in poland. the current high energy prices and the real threat of higher energy prices will lead to the bankruptcy of many factories, increase already very high unemployment and cause a drastic increase in the cost of living. already today, 1,500 workers were laid off at the polish huta częstochowa. in this plant, energy costs in some departments exceed 50% of production costs. therefore, any climate policy action cannot be separated from the different economic and social realities of the individual countries of the european union. in this situation, a renewed attempt to push backloading and the consequent drastic increase in energy prices will further weaken the competitiveness of energy-intensive industrial sectors. i therefore call on parliament to confirm in the vote on wednesday its already expressed opposition to the attempt to withdraw part of the co2 allowances from the market.
mr. chairman, please! we're voting on the back-loading issue next wednesday. it is an initiative of the european commission which aims to raise the price of greenhouse gas emission allowances by artificial administrative methods. it's a dubious undertaking from the point of view of the rules of the market the free market which assumes that these rules should not be changed during the game, at a time when they have already been established and implemented. that is the case here and it undermines the stability and certainty of the rules of economic operators. but what is nonetheless important, and perhaps even paramount in this case, is the fact that unfortunately the case will have far-reaching repercussions in terms of the situation of households and the european economy, because this initiative will inevitably lead to an increase in energy prices, which will be reflected on the accounts of both ordinary european consumers and those who are engaged in production. and another thing: it's striking that economies that compete with us, like the united states or the far east, have much lower energy prices, even half as much, and these changes will cause energy prices to rise and will further reduce the competitiveness of the european economy.
in writing. the ever-growing world population, the rapidly increasing demand for food and energy, and the scarcity of the world's natural resources all require new systemic solutions. one of them is certainly the bioeconomy, which, by promoting sustainability, can contribute to rural development, sustainable and smart growth, food security and employment. other benefits are expected to be the introduction of more environmentally friendly production cycles through industrial innovation. the bio-economy is credited with promoting research, innovation and skills, and improving policy synergies, market development and competitiveness. to achieve the desired results, the harmonization of agricultural, industrial and environmental policies, combined with research and innovation, should be pursued. it is also necessary to promote public-private partnerships in the field of industry and biotechnology, which could support the implementation of new projects, enable the development of innovative products and contribute to their actual introduction to the market. an efficient bioeconomy is a highly effective tool for creating sustainable growth and increasing social activities while reducing environmental impact.
mr. chairman, please! my predecessors have been very critical of the summit arrangements, but i have the impression that, while we are not always dealing with summits that produce tangible results and concrete positive decisions, it is precisely last week's european council that can be said to be one of those where the leaders of the european union are able to properly read the problems, respond to the challenges and try to deal with the biggest scourges that are facing, especially european youth. i'm actually talking about two decisions that were, from my perspective, crucial. the first concerns the agreement on the multiannual financial framework - the union budget that people, businesses, local authorities, ngos and ordinary citizens in many parts of europe have been waiting for. this is sometimes the only money that can be used to pay for specific investments from next year, because national or regional governments cannot afford to carry out public investments without using european funds. i would like to thank and congratulate the president of parliament, the president of the commission and the president of the council for this decision, which many millions of europeans have been waiting for. the second decision, which may not be ambitious from a certain point of view, but which is also worthy of recognition, is to increase expenditure by 30% (at least 30% as we heard from president van rompuy) to combat the scourge of youth unemployment. i hope that these funds to support national programmes will bring tangible results, not only in the number of new jobs, not only in reducing the number of young people who are unemployed, who have no opportunity to take up a job or to continue working, but also, importantly, that among these young people who are disappointed, frustrated today, it will restore faith in the meaning of the european project, in the meaning of the european union as an institution that understands the needs of ordinary citizens, not just politicians and bankers.
mr. chairman, please! what i'm particularly interested in is the important decisions that have been made. first, the acceptance of the budget agreement for the years 2014-2020. it was not at all obvious that this agreement would come to fruition. secondly, there are new measures - not enough - for youth unemployment, but we are trying to solve this problem. we should do more! third, an attempt was made to resolve the credit crisis. small and medium-sized enterprises need capital. small and medium-sized enterprises are the ones where new jobs can be created. the same applies to the creation of new enterprises. i would like to thank the irish presidency and welcome the new presidency, the lithuanian presidency, which will take over a number of tasks. but ireland has completed important works. i am also pleased to note that croatia is a new member and that mr plenković has spoken here for the first time as the member of parliament for croatia, which is now a full member. and i'm pleased to welcome... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! i welcomed the conclusions of last week's council meeting, both those on the agreement on the multiannual financial framework, which all regions and all communities have been waiting for, and the decisions on youth unemployment. the dramatic situation of young people in the labour market requires decisive and rapid action, and i therefore believe that the decision to concentrate the majority of resources on combating youth unemployment in the first two years of the new financial perspective is justified. the european union has instruments that, if used well, provide the opportunity to provide support. the european social fund has particular potential, but beyond the so-called youth guarantees, which are the main instrument of social policy, the focus should be on actions that help create new jobs and stimulate entrepreneurship.
in writing. the political agreement on the european union's multiannual financial framework is very good news for all those who care about the development of a common, united europe. it is vital that in seeking a financial compromise, we do not forget the vital social needs. i am referring to the provisions of the multiannual budget which, by consolidating the appropriations, will improve the situation of young people on the labour market in the first years of its application. i am very pleased that from the beginning of next year, thanks to eu funds, there is a real chance of effectively tackling youth unemployment. the success of the budgetary resources will enable the european union institutions, in consultation with the governments of the member states, to develop programmes that effectively combat youth unemployment and enable young people to acquire new skills and professional qualifications. the plan to guarantee young europeans the opportunity to enter employment or further education within four months of leaving school has the potential to make a significant difference to young people's chances of finding work. it is therefore very important that the commission, while monitoring the use of the funds to combat youth unemployment, initiates and coordinates the youth employment programmes in the member states.
in writing. – ireland obtained the presidency of the eu council in a crucial moment, where expectations were high and time for achieving results was short. regardless of the obstacles, the irish eu presidency was able to meet commitments on 80 legislative dossiers in areas that affect eu citizens daily. through 374 trilogue meetings and 54 council sessions, chaired by irish ministers, the irish eu presidency was able to concluded negotiations on the single supervisory mechanism (ssm), the unified patent court agreement (upc) and the erasmus+ project for supporting education and training. in the last days of the presidency ireland led a compromise on the cap and cfp reform, as well as the horizon 2020 programme for research and innovation. perhaps the presidency’s greatest accomplishment was its ability to reconcile various interests and reach a political agreement on the next mff 2014-2020 at the levels of the presidents of the three institutions. the mff deal includes many of the issues the parliament has been insisting on: more flexibility in payments and commitments, arrangements for revision and stronger emphasis on fighting youth unemployment. we therefore thank ireland for a successful presidency which accomplished important results in the areas of stability, job creation and growth.
in writing. the multiannual financial framework was undoubtedly the most important task of the irish presidency of the council. it was not an easy task. all the more reason to commend the irish authorities for having succeeded in bringing about a political agreement between the eu institutions. this is an important achievement, because the multiannual budget will have a huge impact on the future of the eu. as a polish member of the european parliament, i have an additional reason to be satisfied. the mff is very beneficial for poland. the framework also confirms that the values that gave rise to european integration are still relevant. solidarity, strengthening peace and prosperity, supporting the weak, caring for the common good - all of these continue to work. poland is a great example of how european support can be used effectively. it's just a good investment. for all of us. thank you very much. thank you.
mr. chairman, please! i think it's tactless to put on this list of auditions that we've received the late artist luciano pavarotti.
in writing. - the pace of progress in the world today is enormous. this is followed by the use of mineral resources, demographic changes, and environmental devastation. to ensure that future generations can continue to enjoy the wonders of nature, action must be taken to balance development and ecological processes. it is necessary to take action to support innovative approaches in areas related to the bioeconomy. full harmonisation requires the establishment of a transparent and flexible regulatory framework and coordination and coherent cross-sectoral action in the area of new technology development, as well as innovative research and the introduction of modern solutions into the lives of ordinary citizens. therefore, as future-conscious representatives of european society, we should make the right decision now.
in writing. − the proposed reforms for the staff of the european institutions are missing key issues that have to be addressed. one point is that there is a lack of any type of connection between merit and promotion. this results in a lack of quality among the employees, which manifests a lack of efficiency. the other point is that the solutions to the method and crisis clauses are very complicated and could lead to a number of political problems. i believe that this report is incomplete and i cannot support it. i voted against this report.
in writing. - i supported the report by mrs sirpa pietikäinen on the improvement and detailed re-examination of the eu's state aid rules. council regulation (ec) no 659/1999 aims to improve the way complaints are handled and to obtain information from the market more efficiently, as well as to increase the transparency of the whole procedure. it should be noted that as a result of the implementation of the provisions in question, the complainant will be required to provide information attesting to the validity of the verification and to demonstrate that it is an interested party. only if the above criteria are met will the application be considered as a complaint. the solutions proposed in the document will ensure the enforcement of the law and help to avoid a situation where unduly granted state aid restricts competition in the community.
mr. chairman, please! a strong eu aviation policy is a guarantee of progress both in the single open market and in economic cooperation with key foreign trading partners. today, aviation is a powerful economic sector, generating more than five million jobs in the member states. however, it still requires a broad commitment to enhance its potential and competitiveness. actions aimed at continuous capacity expansion, including maximising the capacity of existing airports and their expansion, are of particular importance. low-cost carriers play a huge role in the complementarity of internal traffic. however, their activities must take into account any standards resulting from the protection of consumer rights. air traffic agreements are a good solution in cooperation with partner countries. the concern is that russia has not complied with the agreement on the withdrawal of fees for flights over siberia, which moscow is obliged to do by its membership of the wto. this is a problem that needs to be addressed in our relationships.
in writing. − aviation is a fast-growing sector of the european union's economy, employing up to 5 million citizens. in order to maintain an appropriate level of competitiveness of the sector on the global stage, it is necessary to implement the single european sky (ses) legislation package in all member states with a sufficient degree of speed and to modernise european air traffic management systems (sesar programme). unfortunately, there are significant delays in the implementation of these projects, which generate additional costs for airlines and result in inconvenience for passengers. the european commission should therefore pursue a punitive policy towards countries that do not comply with the recommendations on the functioning of airspace blocks. in addition, the aviation sectors in developing countries (in the asia-pacific, middle east and south america regions) are increasingly competitive with eu aviation. therefore, we need to make rapid progress in this area, including through increasing airport capacity, encouraging investment in aviation infrastructure, and fully implementing mechanisms such as ses and sesar.
in writing. − currently, the most important aviation markets are located outside of europe, for which reason we need to reform the aviation industry within the eu. reforms in policies ensure that our aviation industries stay competitive and up to date. they create important changes to the key sector in the european economy. aviation alone contributes eur 365 billion to european gdp and provides 5.1 million jobs. it is an industry that has to maintain a high level of efficiency to excel among its competition. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the aviation sector in the european union employs 5 million people and generates 2.4% of its gdp. this share could be even higher if the existing regional airports were better used. as the rapporteur rightly pointed out, regional airports that are located on the eastern borders of the eu, including, for example, rzeszów-jasionka in my region of podkarpatie, are an opportunity to increase capacity and further develop this sector. i also welcome the call on the european commission to conclude the ongoing negotiations with neighbouring countries, including, for example, ukraine. reducing congestion at major european hubs and increasing the competitiveness of the eu as a whole depends on the development of existing regional airports and the conclusion of new international agreements. that is why i shall be voting in favour of this report. thank you, sir.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? during the vote i welcomed and accepted the report on the eu's external aviation policy how to meet future challenges . i believe that, given the rapid technological development and demands in both passenger and freight transport, we must bring about rapid progress in european aviation. first of all, we need new, larger airports with increased capacity, because in the near future we may lose our competitiveness to other rapidly developing regions of the world. in addition, new technological solutions that promote both flight safety and efficiency require immediate implementation, such as ses, sesar, easa or gnss. to this end, we should, inter alia, focus on adopting a broader approach in negotiations with both third countries and the international civil aviation agency, as highlighted in the report. i'll have a little extra. we must not allow any further delays in the introduction of the single european sky.
in writing. − i lent my support to ‘the eu’s external aviation policy – addressing future challenges (2012/2299(ini))’. as my colleagues so accurately stated in the report, this is not an easy undertaking but it will provide for the establishment of a brighter future for eu aviation. the importance of this industry to the eu cannot be understated as the present statistics show that aviation ‘contributes eur 365 billion to european gdp and supports 5.1 million jobs’. that being said, it is vital that we make the necessary expansions and changes to accommodate the needs of not only the eu economy but also of passengers that travel worldwide. to do so i support the recommendation made by the rapporteur who stressed the importance of ‘developing and implementing eu mechanisms such as ses, sesar, easa and gnss. these tools, created to support the internal market, will by consequence help the eu in its external aviation policy. the completion of these mechanisms will consolidate the position of the european industry, leaving it stronger to face the new competitive challenges’.
mr. chairman, please! export credits are one of the important mechanisms to support trade, especially in times of crisis. banks, by lending to a foreign buyer, are transferring funds to domestic exporters, thus supporting their own country's economy. it is important that the annual report includes an assessment of the compliance of projects supported by the agencies with international regulations on such loans and with the principles of the union's external action. the proposal to the council and the commission to work together with european diplomacy to develop a methodology for the submission of in-depth reports, the quality of which is currently far too low, is interesting in this context. this should lead to increased transparency in lending. the requirement that oecd countries adopt new rules on export credits and high standards ensuring a level playing field for credit agencies is also welcome.
in writing. - i voted for the report by mrs sousa because i think it is a good document. given that the number of applications for egf support continues to increase and that this year marks the most important final phase of the ex-post evaluation of the functioning of the egf for the years 2007 to 2013, the amount of eur 750 000 for technical assistance seems to me justified. like the rapporteur, i hope that the commission's efforts to introduce an electronic application form and to standardise procedures will contribute to significant simplification and greater availability of the information needed. i also hope that the planned expert group meetings and the seminar for practitioners will help to increase the effectiveness of the projects supported by the egf. i hope that the ex-post evaluation that the commission is planning will help to make the egf more effective in the future and that the support from this fund will add value, be well coordinated with actions taken at national level and contribute to a real improvement in the situation of the workers made redundant and their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported the recommendation of mrs evelyn regner on the statute of the european foundation. the institution is active in the fields of scientific research, environmental protection, education, sport and culture. a european foundation that carries out work in more than one country often encounters procedural difficulties (often having to use legal or tax advice) and incurs high costs as a result. however, these funds could be used for more useful purposes than the one mentioned above. the report proposes to introduce minimum standards that are uniform across the union, which will remove many existing barriers, facilitate cross-border activities and facilitate the flow of donations.
in writing. − the statute of the european foundation has been in the works for several years. in the meantime, various concepts and studies have emerged that anticipate the potential benefits and risks of this activity. i think that this form of activity still needs to be improved, which is why i voted against.
in writing. − it is estimated that there are currently over 100 000 public-benefit organisations with foundation status in the european union. almost half of them were created in the last ten years, which shows a lot of momentum in the nonprofit sector. these organisations make a huge contribution to the various aspects of the lives of eu citizens. their activities play a significant role in sectors such as scientific research, culture and the environment. unfortunately, the lack of harmonised rules for their operation is proving to be a formidable barrier to their development. the most problematic issues are the problems of recognition of the foundation's statutes by individual member states, the costs of each registration and the adaptation of the rules of operation to the rules applicable in each country. the proposal to create a statute for a european foundation aims primarily at reducing costs, guaranteeing legal certainty and facilitating the presence of a foundation beyond the borders of a single country through a legal personality recognised at union level. of course, it is difficult to establish a common, uniform definition of public benefit, so we have to be careful about issues such as unified tax breaks. in this context, i believe that the european parliament's proposal to introduce alternative solutions is a step in the right direction and deserves support.
in writing. − the establishment of a fair minimum standard for working and living conditions on board ships has always been supported by parliament. this report effectively highlights the features that the new minimum standards will include for the whole industry and successfully outlines the ways in which they will be enforced. it aims to improve workers’ rights, ship safety, security and environmental protection. consequently, i am pleased to see that one of the many objectives of this report is to emphasise the attractiveness of maritime professions to european citizens. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i supported the report on port state control because it is most appropriate to ratify the maritime labour convention quickly and to reform the current eu legislation. however, the creation of the appropriate legislative framework will certainly not be sufficient. this is partly because we need to employ a sufficient number of specialised and trained inspectors within the eu who are able to assess the living and working conditions of seafarers on board ships.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2009/16/ec on port state control (com(2012)0129 – c7-0081/2012 – 2012/0062(cod)). the shipping industry is of great significance to the eu and should provide within its workings the safety and quality standards to protect the employees of said industry. as a representative from northern poland, the shipping industry is the lifeblood of my city and region. therefore, i view this vote as yet another opportunity to improve the standards which ship employees deserve. while i can understand the burden placed on the member states to accommodate some aspects of the directive, it should be said that while the industry provides economic benefit, this should not be at the expense of the employees. i greatly look forward to the implementation of this directive and will be glad to see the positive outcomes from this piece of legislation as they pertain to the hard-working men and women of the shipping industry.
in writing. − the new system will not only harmonise the existing eu standards for port state control, but also, for the first time, provide a fully coordinated system covering all port state security inspections in the eu. a pan-european coordination and analysis system will allow for a more effective use of port control measures, in particular the identification of high-risk vessels and companies with poor safety performance. that's why i voted yes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs vilja savisaar-toomasty on the issue of vehicle registration documents. i believe that the changes in the report will make the vehicle registration system in the european union more uniform and transparent. in addition, the exchange of vehicle registration information between member states will be much more efficient due to the storage of data in the electronic national registers. this will avoid the need to register in several member states and will settle the issue of liability for the vehicle. the document will also help to reduce the illegal trade in stolen cars. it is crucial to reduce the number of vehicle documents required and to streamline the record keeping procedure. in addition, the report provides for a change in the form of the registration certificate to a more transparent and universal one. this decision will not only contribute to the more efficient registration of vehicles in the european union, but will also allow for more effective cooperation between member states.
in writing. − the procedures for registering a car bought in another eu country are often very cumbersome, and unclear rules on when and where the vehicle must be registered can effectively discourage movement within the internal market. it is a problem that european union citizens have identified as one of the 20 most common problems in their daily lives. the project aims to identify precisely the country in which a car that frequently crosses borders (e.g. commutes to work in another country) should be registered, and to streamline the vehicle re-registration process. i supported the report because reducing the administrative burden in this area would remove a major obstacle to mobility in the internal market. the road package adopted will harmonise the rules on vehicle testing and thus allow the validity of the technical test to be mutually recognised by all member states. importantly, not only will the burden be reduced for the offices, but also for all those affected, as it will be cheaper and more convenient for people buying cars abroad, students studying abroad and wanting to use their car during their studies, or for car rental companies and those carrying out orders in other member states. it is estimated that simplifying rules and eliminating red tape could save the eu up to €1.5 billion a year.
in writing. − although the number of road accidents has decreased in recent years, the priority objective of further reducing the number of road fatalities by 50% by 2020 remains. this proposal is part of the so-called 'review package', which contains three different reports in total. it aims to strengthen and enforce the rules on roadworthiness testing of motor vehicles to ensure that such vehicles are deregistered until their reliability is proven by a new test, if they pose a danger to road safety.
in writing. − reducing administrative burden is an important issue. being efficient when it comes to interlinking of national electronic registration databases is another task defined in this regulation. i strongly supported both of these improvements facilitated by the european parliament. in order to speed up the negotiation process with the lithuanian presidency i voted in favour of a referral back to the committee.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted for the report on vehicle registration documents because it may have the effect of reducing the number of documents that drivers must carry on board a vehicle. it also gives the vehicle owner the possibility of cancelling the registration of the vehicle, thereby relieving the owner of further liability and obliging the member states to mutually recognise the roadworthiness of the vehicle.
in writing. − compared to the current act, this proposal provides for a more precise definition of the place of registration of vehicles and introduces the possibility of withdrawal and cancellation of registration. withdrawal of registration until the roadworthiness test has been carried out with a positive result ensures that vehicles posing a direct threat to road safety are not allowed to enter the road. in order to reduce the administrative burden, a re-entry into the registration process should not be required after the revocation has been lifted. in addition, the original registration of a vehicle that has been re-registered in another member state shall be automatically cancelled. this will avoid parallel registration in different member states. the registration of vehicles which are to be scrapped as a result of the periodic roadworthiness test and of vehicles declared as end-of-life vehicles shall be cancelled following the notification. all of this is contributing to improving road safety, and therefore the safety of all of us, which is why i'm in favor of it. the proposal also sets out new requirements for electronic registration databases, tracking of roadworthiness test results, re-registration and recall of vehicles.
in writing. - road safety is a very important issue for society. vehicles deteriorate with use and time, and road safety declines. i supported the report on roadworthiness tests because the new measures will make it easier to improve road safety. we are currently seeing differences in the way roadworthiness tests are carried out in the different member states. the data indicate that the percentage of vehicles not complying with the roadworthiness requirements may be as high as 63% in some member states. however, there are countries where the percentage is very low. these differences are the result of the different ways in which the law on this matter is enforced in the different member states, which is why harmonisation is so important. it is also important that roadworthiness tests are carried out without discrimination, for example on the basis of the nationality of the driver or the country of registration. the mobility of europeans is important for the union's economy and the internal market, and efficient vehicles are an important element in promoting it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the report shows the need for the roadworthiness testing and roadside inspection regime to be improved. car-accident related deaths are a problem all over the world. a large number of those accidents occur due to technical problems. this report aims to reduce those types of accidents and i support its proposed strategy.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation on roadworthiness tests for commercial vehicles in the eu is one of three proposals in the roadworthiness package. the proposal aims in particular to define common rules for technical roadside inspections (tsi). we know that the reliability of vehicles is one of the causes of the decrease in road accidents, and i therefore believe that the harmonization of control systems for checking the technical condition of commercial vehicles in the period between the periodic technical inspections (ctp) is of fundamental importance.
in writing. − i voted in favor of this regulation because the strengthening and harmonisation of eu legislation on roadworthiness tests and on technical roadside inspections will improve safety on europe’s roads. more than 30 000 people die on europe’s roads every year. i hope that this regulation will reduce this number significantly. i especially welcome the fact that member states are now obliged to carry out a number of technical roadside inspections per year. in order to speed up the negotiation process with the lithuanian presidency, i voted in favour of a referral back to the committee.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted in favour of the report on roadworthiness testing of commercial vehicles because it introduces a risk assessment system using the erru register which sets common standards for testing. in the context of cargo security itself, member states will comply with the requirement to check cargo using european standards, but the results of the checks will not be taken into account in the risk assessment system until the rules are harmonised at eu level.
in writing. − technical checks on vehicles are essential for road safety. at least 5 people die every day on europe's roads in accidents caused by technical failures. vice-president siim kallas said: 'driving a car that does not meet the relevant road safety requirements is a danger to the driver as well as to his passengers, who may be his relatives, friends or colleagues.' so this is a very important issue, and i think that's why we need to work on this regulation.
in writing. − the new rules on roadworthiness testing are designed to further improve road safety and ensure a high level of environmental protection. the proposal is important for the construction of a single european transport area, another element of the internal market. i supported the report because setting common eu-wide minimum standards for vehicle testing, while allowing member states to go further and introduce higher standards, is an objective to be supported. the new rules are intended to help halve the number of road deaths by 2020. from the perspective of the internal market and consumer protection, it is important to ensure cross-border competition in the trade of used vehicles, to strengthen measures to combat fraud involving mileage falsification and to address the issue of the exchange of vehicle repair and maintenance data. it is also very important that roadworthiness tests are carried out by independent and qualified experts. with these minimum requirements set out in the report, standards for technical requirements and test methods can be raised, so that we can achieve a high level of road safety.
in writing. − i voted against this report. while i agree with this report’s aim to further enhance road safety, i cannot support the proposed increased intervention by the eu in the standards set in place respectively by the member states’ national governments. i believe that the aforementioned rules should be left to each national government’s discretion.
in writing. − the three proposals in the roadworthiness package present new technical inspection rules to improve road safety while ensuring a high level of environmental protection. at present, the legal framework varies widely from one member state to another, especially as regards road checks, and that is why i believe that there is a need to balance the rules so that they can be applied uniformly throughout europe. the main changes introduced by this proposal are the mandatory checks on motorcycles, scooters and light trailers (up to 3.5 tonnes) and the extension of the mandatory checks to trailers weighing more than 2 tonnes and to caravan trailers weighing more than 750 kg. in addition, it is intended to maintain the minimum threshold of four years for the first technical inspection of cars, followed by a test every two years.
in writing. − when working on such reports, attention should be paid to avoiding excessive interference with national powers in the field of transport policy. in the context of increased road traffic in the eu, it is necessary to strengthen cooperation between member states on the exchange of data on roadworthiness tests of vehicles that they carry out on their territory. as the technical requirements in different countries are not uniform, it is also important to disseminate the best practices of the eu member states in this regard, which will help to reduce the number of road accidents. however, it is important to strike a balance on this difficult issue in order to avoid over-regulation of the transport sector. harmonisation of technical inspections of vehicles should not go beyond what is strictly necessary to ensure road safety and the efficient functioning of the transport market in europe.
in writing. − heavy goods vehicles can be a burden on our society. they not only create congestion, pollution and accidents but they also damage road infrastructure. therefore, i voted in favour of this regulation which enhances road safety and ensures a high level of environmental protection. however, i do not agree with the fact that roadworthiness tests for motorcycles will not be mandatory. in order to speed up the negotiation process with the lithuanian presidency i voted in favour of a referral back to the committee.
in writing. - i think the regulations in this area were sufficient, and that's why i voted against.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr richard seeber today because i believe that the european union must strengthen its measures to control chemical pollution of waters. water bodies are very often the outlet for hazardous man-made substances, and the progressive degradation of aquatic ecosystems is a serious threat to life. to avoid this, the rapporteur supports the european commission's proposal to update the list of priority substances in the field of water policy. it covers industrial chemicals, biocides and plant protection products, and for the first time three substances of pharmacological origin. regular inspections by the european commission are also necessary to ensure that water is clean in all eu countries. however, we must not forget that the efforts of governments and ngos (which play a huge role in raising public awareness of the harmful effects of chemicals on aquatic ecosystems) will not be enough if we do not respect and care for the environment ourselves.
in writing. - i'm not entirely convinced of the validity of these regulations. at the same time, i believe that information which is likely to mislead the public should be avoided. maps showing the chemical status of union waters should not suddenly show that surface water is not achieving good chemical status simply because of new, more stringent requirements or the addition of new substances. that's why i abstained.
in writing. − public services are a pillar of the european social model and are important for territorial, economic and social cohesion. since the mid-1990s, the eesc has been calling for a horizontal approach, which was originally intended to be reflected in the protocol annexed to the treaty of nice, which was intended to lay down more balanced rules aimed at increasing the legal certainty of public utilities (psus) in the context of the deepening of the internal market. however, i think that the importance of this subject calls for some further work on it, and i have therefore abstained.
the promotion of sustainable maritime development, maritime transport and tourism is a crucial element in the reconstruction of the european economy. the european union cannot develop properly without taking proper care of the development of the maritime sector. the mistakes of previous years have led to a complete loss of competitiveness with the far eastern countries in the shipbuilding industry, for example. the shrinking shipbuilding industry in the european union is partly the result of the lack of proper regulations to stimulate the industry. the european union, through unsustainable development, focuses on internal competition, accepting legal disparities in individual countries. as a result of this action, in my country, poland, the shipbuilding industry was abolished by an eu directive. this has led to, among other things, a collapse in the labour market, causing emigration on an unprecedented scale. i call on the european commission to carry out a deep reform of the maritime sector, which will allow the shipbuilding industry to recover and improve the competitiveness of the european union.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted in favour of the report on blue growth in order to exploit the european union's maritime potential, because i believe that most of the legislation in the eu today concerns road and rail transport, while shipping within the union is still burdened by excessive administrative and customs procedures, and there is a lack of clear guidelines on maritime cabotage and the so-called motorways of the sea. we are thus sending a signal to the european commission that we need a concrete legislative proposal for an intra-community maritime policy.
in writing. − in marine and coastal areas, human and economic activities are increasing, e.g. in offshore wind energy, submarine cables and pipelines, maritime transport, fisheries and aquaculture, but insufficient coordination can lead to competition for space and put pressure on valuable resources. the proposed proposal provides that member states will document these types of activities in maritime spatial plans to make more efficient use of the seas and develop coastal zone management strategies to coordinate actions under the different policy areas that affect activities in coastal zones. as part of the minimum requirements of the proposed directive, member states will have to ensure that their maritime spatial planning and coastal zone management promote sustainable growth, while involving relevant stakeholders and cooperating with neighbouring countries. i think it would be good to work out the details of this activity, which is why i abstained.
in writing. − with some 160 000 cooperative enterprises providing jobs for 5.4 million people and contributing to around 5% of member states' gdp, cooperatives and social enterprises are becoming increasingly important to the eu economy and society. as a model, cooperatives have proved to be able to respond to new market needs and stimulate job creation better than other models, largely due to the way they are managed and decentralised. given these advantages of cooperative enterprises, the current report calls for them to be given greater prominence and attention in eu policy. to achieve this, the report calls on member states to review their legislation on cooperatives, with the ultimate aim of establishing regulations that are favourable to the development of cooperatives in all fields and sectors. the report calls for the creation of a directorate within the enterprise and industry dg focusing on cooperatives and other economic social bodies. in addition, the report calls for more flexibility in the rules for awarding public contracts to employee-managed enterprises, for example by including fixed-term reservations. promoting the role of cooperatives is a way of promoting economic growth, entrepreneurship and innovation in the eu. i voted to accept the report.
in writing. - we often undervalue ready-made ideas that are just waiting to be reused, upgraded or simply remembered. so is the cooperative. even though co-ops have been around forever, they're underappreciated. and this is an innovative idea for an economy in crisis, a traditional model of cooperation that has worked perfectly for years. this form of enterprise adapts flexibly and efficiently to changing economic conditions, encourages entrepreneurship and creativity, creates new jobs and integrates society. democratic governance, common equity and budgetary control make this form of economic activity sustainable and efficient. i would therefore like to see this type of action supported both institutionally and financially.
in writing. − in the current economic crisis, social enterprises represent a huge employment opportunity for millions of people in europe. they reflect the principles of social solidarity and democracy and demonstrate that, if the right legal framework is put in place, citizens can best serve their own interests and those of others. i am very pleased that the report emphasises the role of cooperatives in integrating disabled and disadvantaged people. in the context of the recent draft new european commission regulation on block exemptions (gber), which may have negative effects on disabled people, as the european parliament we need to remind about the social groups particularly at risk of exclusion. cooperatives and other social economy enterprises are the best example of this. that is why i voted for this report. thank you, sir.
in writing. − as the 'socialist' model of a centrally planned economy no longer exists in practice in europe, the crisis of cooperative identity now concerns the disappearance of the differences between cooperative and private enterprises. what does it mean to me that i shop in a cooperative supermarket rather than an international holding company? this is a question that many consumers around the world might ask themselves and the answer would be difficult to find, although, of course, the protagonists of cooperatives in at least some countries might mention ethical business practices in cooperatives, activities aimed at the benefit of the consumer rather than the multiplication of the company's profit, various types of profits for members or regular customers (return on purchases), etc. however, many of these methods could also be used by a number of 'capitalist' companies seeking to attract an audience. the more obvious, though often less clear-cut, answer might come from those employed in a cooperative. and because i'm not convinced that it's right, i voted against it.
in writing. - i supported the report by mr paol bartolozzi on the bioeconomy for europe. the current efforts to develop this sector are the economic future of the community. by promoting innovation and investment, the european market has the potential to become more competitive. the proposed changes are designed to increase production and, as a result, create many jobs. the development of national and regional bioeconomy action plans provides clear prospects for development. the role of the regions and the exchange of knowledge remain particularly important. the funding will be used both for biomaterials research and for training specialists. it is also very important to create appropriate legal instruments to simplify the procedures for implementation and monitoring of the changes. the proposals in the report are clearly conducive to achieving smart and sustainable development in the european union, which will help to strengthen the community's position as a world leader in the bioeconomy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. developing a bioeconomy is an important goal to have within the eu. i agree with the report’s intention to trigger more innovations. they will lead to more efficient mechanisms for sustainable growth and will contribute to the proposed bioeconomy. in addition, more innovation will give us the ability to enhance the competitiveness of the eu’s industry. it is the right step for the eu to take and i am pleased to support it.
in writing. europe will soon face new realities that will seriously challenge our ways of living and working, including the growing world population, increased demand for food and energy, and the scarcity of resources. this is why the european union needs a real strategy for innovation, especially in the field of the bioeconomy. this report, which paves the way for a more innovative, resource-efficient, competitive and, above all, food security and sustainable development society, must be supported. that is why i have followed up my vote in the affirmative.
in writing. - explanation of vote: report on innovation for sustainable growth: the bioeconomy for europe. the human population is growing by millions every year. in europe, despite its low population density, the number of citizens is increasing, which may lead to food and energy shortages. new ways of developing the economy are therefore needed to ensure that production is not increased at the expense of the environment and quality, and that healthy, organic food is widely available. union support for agriculture, the short-chain food supply, and the production and use of biomass can only bring benefits. with european support, it will be possible to develop organic production, a market for healthy food using renewable energy. energy security is one of the most important challenges facing the developing union. year after year, the demand for electricity increases. as an energy importer, poland must develop new forms of production to become independent from its neighbours. over the next 40 years, europe will have to deal with many economic and social challenges. that is why i voted for innovation in this area, so that in the future no one will have to fear hunger.
in writing. − with the world's population continuing to grow, europe has decided to change the course of its economy towards more sustainable use of renewable resources. it will do so by developing new technologies and processes in the bioeconomy, developing markets and competitiveness of bioeconomy sectors, and encouraging closer cooperation between policy-makers and stakeholders. the provision of safe and healthy food and feed, as well as the production of biomaterials, bioenergy and other bio-based products, are the main objectives. such activities will enable us to have a more innovative and low-carbon economy and reconcile the need for sustainable agriculture and fisheries, food security and the sustainable exploitation of renewable biological resources for industry, while protecting biodiversity and the environment, and that is why i am in favour of this.
mr president, mr prime minister, if there is one principle which this chamber has been applying consistently it is that of double standards. when the socialists were ravaging hungary, this chamber never uttered a word of protest. now when the government introduces common-sense reforms the chamber falls into periodic fits of hysteria. not a single objection in the report holds water. the new laws of hungary are certainly less discriminatory than the laws of france, sweden or other member states and certainly more european than what today goes under the banner of european values. this attack on hungary is a blatant violation of subsidiarity which should protect us from unnecessary and arrogant interference from a superior power, not to mention that hungary is criticised for lack of democracy by institutions which, like the european commission, are essentially undemocratic. if this is not a double standard then what is? a lot of you said that you speak as friends of hungary. well you know the old saying: god protect me from my friends because i can take care of my enemies myself. good luck, mr prime minister. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am sorry, but i am absolutely unable to answer this question. it does not refer in any way whatsoever to what i said before.
mr. chairman, please! to return to the debate, the union is not the soviet union, but when we joined the union or when we built it, we agreed on certain rules which must be respected. i do not think that is what mr tavares' report does. it is not because the attempt by this house, by our parliament, to suggest what should be written in the hungarian constitution is simply unacceptable. the suggestion of a special monitoring mechanism for the hungarian authorities through a special group in the european parliament is an unacceptable over-interpretation of the treaties and damages the image of our chamber and of the european union as a whole. similarly, to suggest that the osce establish a long-term mission in hungary as if there were a real, not a purported, theoretical risk that there could be irregularities in the elections is not only a harmful idea, but it is unfair to the hungarians and their authorities. finally, the reference to article 7 of the treaty, which says that countries that persist in violating the rules should be punished and yet, as the european commission informs us, the hungarian government, the government of prime minister orbán, cooperates on all issues that raise doubts among individual members of the european commission. in short, mr tavares' report on the human rights situation in hungary is neither objective, nor balanced, nor constructive, and should therefore be rejected. and to mr. cashman, dear sir, don't compare hungary and turkey, because in turkey people are shot in the streets and there are victims, just as it happened in hungary, but in the times of the socialist government, the government of f. gyurcsány, not mr. orbán, this is the fundamental difference. you remember that. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
blue-card answer. – there is a huge difference between the situation in turkey and the situation in hungary. in turkey people are against the government. they are on the streets protesting and the police use force against them. have you noticed that in budapest recently? i saw that during the gyurcsány government but not since prime minister orbán has been in power.
mr president, prime minister orbán, you are a man of great courage. i apologize for what is happening in this chamber, i apologize for this debate and for this scandalous report. i am sure that the founding fathers of europe are turning in their graves today as they see the bureaucracy of strasbourg and brussels sneaking into the lives of free and sovereign hungarians. why this cry of hatred? this is revenge for the effective conservatism that prime minister orbán is introducing in hungary. big business hates you for having to rebuild the country after the socialist government taxed energy companies, hypermarkets, banks, foreign capital. he hates you, the left, because instead of renouncing your christian values, you proudly enshrined them in the constitution. the socialists hate you because you've started to call communist crimes into account and you've clearly called communism tyranny in your constitution. there's a saying, "what doesn't kill you makes you stronger". i want you to hear from solidarity poland the greetings and best wishes for a free hungary. long live the free hungary! - i'm not going to do it.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, lady justice is blind and the commission will remain vigilant vis-à-vis bulgaria, as it will vis-à-vis any other member state. it will not hesitate to make use of its powers in cases of possible infringement of union law or clear risks of serious breaches of eu values. you have already heard this sentence several times, and i have also pronounced it already this afternoon, because the commission’s statement in the debates on hungary this year, last year, is also resonant today. just as the commission was vigilant and acted on one member state, it will be doing the same on any other member state. we know that the political situation in bulgaria is polarised. that is why the commission appeals to all political forces in bulgaria for a consensus, for the stability and the prosperity of the country. the two debates this house has had this afternoon show how important it is for the european union as a whole to promote the rule of law. some instruments are already in place, the cooperation and verification instrument for instance, and we can draw experiences from those. but we need to reinforce our capacity to better address concerns about the rule of law. that is also what i said at the conclusion of the hungary debate. i welcome the fact that all european institutions are engaged in a dialogue on this, together with the judicial authorities, because it is in the best interests of all and especially of eu citizens, who expect to see their rights and their freedoms protected everywhere.
president-in-office of the council. − madam president, i have listened very attentively to the debate and have taken good note of the range of views which have been expressed in the course of this discussion. it would not be appropriate for me, as a representative of the council, to respond to the various concerns that have been expressed about the current political situation in bulgaria, but many of you have made clear the strong views which you hold about recent developments and i will report back on this debate to my colleagues in the council. i am grateful to you for enabling the presidency to follow this debate.
member of the commission. − madam president, as we all know, continuous and very heavy rains in late may and early june resulted in major floods in several of our member states. austria, germany, the czech and slovak republics, france and, to a somewhat lesser degree, poland, hungary, romania and spain were all affected. in many places, water levels reached the highest marks ever recorded. in some cases, the highest mark on record was reached in 500 years. more than 20 people lost their lives, and hundreds of thousands suffered severe damage to their homes and property. on behalf of the commission, i would like to send heartfelt condolences to the families and friends of the victims, and to express our sympathy and support for the people and authorities of the countries affected. the floods have caused enormous damage, but they have also shown that important lessons have been learned since the 2002 floods. we have seen the evidence that preparedness and prevention pay off. actions taken, including in some cases with financial support from the european structural and cohesion funds, meant that fewer people died and that there was less damage. all affected countries were able to cope with the effects of the floods through national means, in some instances complemented by limited support from neighbouring countries or regions. i was in one of the affected regions of austria – salzburg – last week. there i took part, together with ms mikl-leitner, the minister of the interior for austria, in an eight-country simulation exercise to respond to massive floods and landslides. i heard there, time and again, from the local authorities, the red cross, the army, the firefighters and the water rescue teams that, as a result of concerted efforts over the last years, the level of preparedness of the local population was much higher and the structural protection measures much better in 2013 than in 2002. secondly, the floods have shown once again the high quality of the rescue services in our member states. while the rescuers i spoke to were very modest in taking credit for their heroic efforts, it is very clear that the emergency services played a decisive role in saving lives and limiting damage. professionals and volunteers, civilians, the military and police forces have worked tirelessly to protect their communities. they deserve our highest appreciation and gratitude. thirdly, throughout the crisis the european commission’s emergency response centre (erc) was in constant contact with all affected countries and closely monitored the situation. one key role the centre plays is to be an information hub, and it was the only body which kept a round-the-clock overview of developments across europe for the benefit of everybody. information was regularly shared with all 32 countries that participate in the civil protection mechanism. from the beginning of the floods, the centre issued a daily ‘crisis flash’ on the floods, and my services also provided on-demand, high-resolution satellite images and regular forecasts for the flooded areas and at-risk areas. information is critical, but it has to be there on time. fourthly, now that the waters have largely receded and the long and expensive clean-up begins, the eu’s solidarity fund – established after the 2002 floods – is available to provide assistance to our member states in dealing with the costs of the emergency measures. we in the commission cannot activate the fund on our own initiative, but we stand ready to give any guidance and advice that may be required in preparing an application, and we are actually already doing so. let me finish by stressing once again the importance of prevention in our fight against the adverse effects of floods. europe is regularly hit by severe flooding; climate change only makes this situation worse. as we have seen, in just over 11 years central europe has experienced two once-in-a-hundred-years floods. in the light of this trend, in 2007 the eu adopted the floods directive, a comprehensive framework for the assessment and management of flood risks, including cross-border risks. flood risk management plans are due to be adopted by 2015, and eu structural funds are available to help with the implementation of these plans. as of this year, we have in place a framework for adapting to climate change. together, the member states and european institutions are working to make europe stronger in the face of more frequent and more devastating disasters. it is in this period that we are also are revisiting our civil protection legislation, currently being examined in trilogue negotiations. this new legislation will significantly improve the eu’s collective response capacity. it will also introduce – for the first time – legislative requirements on prevention and on the preparation of risk assessments. i would urge the co-legislators, those here in the parliament and of course in the council, to keep their level of ambition high, but also to do everything possible to reach an agreement without delay. we need it for our citizens.
on behalf of the efd group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm stuck in the elevator, but i'm here. i would like to note that after the floods, some polish provinces, such as małopolska, lublin, świętokrzyskie, mazowieckie, podkarpackie, lower silesia and opole, suffered significant losses. by june 13, 29 units of local government in lesser poland had reported losses, and so far the voivodeship commission has verified losses of over pln 10 million. at the same time, the agricultural losses are being assessed. according to the reports of municipalities and farmers, it is estimated that more than 2,5 thousand farms are affected. in addition, a huge part of the crops were destroyed by the castle's rains. i would like to know from the commission whether it provides for additional funds for regions particularly affected by floods in 2013? is there any plan to support farmers who have lost a large part of their crops in lesser poland due to hail and does the commission intend to allocate special funds in the new financial perspective for regions frequently affected by floods and landslides?
madam president! first of all, i would like to express my condolences to all the citizens who have been affected by this year's floods and to the families of the victims. for the past 15 years, central and eastern european countries have regularly faced extremely aggressive floods, with water levels increasingly above safe levels. this year, in europe alone, including poland, more than 100,000 farms and 600,000 hectares of agricultural land were affected. the polish capital, warsaw, was paralyzed. this clearly shows the importance of member states increasing their flood control capacity and implementing flood control programmes based on comprehensive prevention strategies. investments in flood prevention under national operational programmes are also of great importance. they require adequate union funding as they are an important tool for member states to develop flood-prevention infrastructure. i therefore ask the european commission to assess the situation in good faith and to refrain from hastily suspending and withdrawing measures in the context of the implementation of the obligations arising from the water framework directive.
madam president! every year, floods hit european union countries, always a tragedy for thousands of people living in flooded areas, with huge financial losses and loss of their livelihoods. natural disasters have a negative impact on the development of regions and the absorption of union funds, and their effects should therefore be addressed as soon as possible. the decision to grant financial assistance should be swift and efficient. as we have repeatedly stressed in the european parliament in recent years, the mechanism for triggering aid is too burdensome and needs to be revised. we must not forget the preventive measures and the implementation of flood-prevention investments that limit the effects of natural disasters. we should also make changes to improve our response to the increasing frequency of disasters. finally, i would like to thank all the rescue services, state units and volunteer firefighters from poland, and especially from my region of podkarpacie, for their quick response and assistance to the civilian population.
in writing. as a result of the severe floods that began in may and june, many central european countries were affected. thousands of people were evacuated from the affected areas, and the military and firefighters were mobilized. the czech republic, slovakia, germany, hungary, and austria were the hardest hit, as was poland. the flood wave caused huge damage in the affected areas, and the cost of this damage is estimated in billions of euros. it should be emphasised, however, that the authorities of all these countries reacted immediately to this spreading 'historic flood' in central europe. the heads of state took the matter very seriously, mobilizing the available units to help in this type of situation. the catastrophe that has struck europe is very sad and despite the mobilization of all possible forces, the damage to the victims is enormous. the damage caused by the floods will be recovered over a very long period of time, which is why it is so important that the community supports the affected areas in order to speed up their recovery. it is important to bear in mind that in the face of such tragedies, it is crucial that the fundamental values of solidarity and unity are respected in our relations with one another. despite these negative developments, it should not be forgotten that such crises should lead to a deepening of european integration. the eu's task now is to overcome the crisis together and try to prevent similar situations in the future. i hope that the reconstruction of the affected areas will become one of the eu's priorities in the near future.
mr. chairman, please! i am, of course, fully aware of the fact that for some countries the introduction of this tax is a political priority. in view of the above, the council agreed, including by the votes of the non-accession countries, to work on enhanced cooperation on this new tax. as a representative of a country outside the initiative, i would like to express some concern about the proposal put forward by the european commission. i believe that the new solutions proposed in the directive, concerning, inter alia, tax liability, tax collection, solidarity liability, and the rules designed to protect financial institutions against delocalisation and tax avoidance, may have a negative impact on non-participating states. in my view, the design of the tax collection outside the country makes the ptf a charge of an extraterritorial nature. consequently, despite the decision of a member state not to introduce the ptf, the financial sector institutions and tax authorities of that member state will bear the costs of its implementation by other member states. in this context, i would like to recall the wording of article 332 of the treaty on the functioning of the union, according to which the expenditure resulting from the implementation of enhanced cooperation shall be borne only by the member states participating in the cooperation. however, i am encouraged by the amendment tabled by the econ committee calling for the creation of a working committee to work on the detailed rules for implementing the new tax. this committee would include representatives of all the countries. i also hope that the european commission will soon undertake a thorough study of the possibility of converting this tax into an own-resource of the union, into some form of own-resource of the european union, which could increase the interest and the willingness of the other countries to join enhanced cooperation.
mr. chairman, please! well, i just wanted to thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on what i think is a very important issue. for several years now, europe has been experiencing a severe economic and financial crisis. until recently, there was a real threat that this crisis would affect the entire banking sector on a similar, very large scale. fortunately, a number of measures, including those of the european commission, have reduced the scale of the sector's problems. so the question is, is that enough? no, that's not good enough. the key is to curb the urge to speculate and to maximize short-term profits. the risky investment segregation and retail client protection must be further tightened, and above all, we must continue to work hard to rebuild trust in the banking sector.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in fact, my esteemed predecessor, mr. staes, said what i wanted to say. of course we can say that olaf is needed, that it should be better controlled that's all blah, blah. we must talk about the concrete: the amendments we are talking about are instruments which will allow olaf to be a more effective institution, as the citizens, the european taxpayers, want it to be, but they will also allow for better control of this institution. i believe that the enhanced powers of the supervisory committee are a step in the right direction. we want to support these amendments, as well as the extension of the scope of internal control of the legality of olaf's activities. i would say that if these amendments are adopted, we will support this report, and i hope that this will be the political will of the european parliament.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to what i believe is a very important matter which has not been raised at all in this debate. it is worth noting that the activities of the financial crimes unit are of increasing interest to the citizens of the union. this interest will increase further in 2014 - the year of the european parliament elections. in this context, i would like to emphasise the importance of the information policy of this very important office. in my view, uniform standards should be adopted on the timing and extent of disclosure. i have the impression that there is a lot of freedom in this matter and that information is often given too late, only after it has been published in the media - too late.
madam president! your colleague said that this time of the lithuanian presidency is a time when lithuania can show its culture, its customs, and i think that the situation in europe today is such that you have to show a political tooth. in some cases, we have to offer something fresh, something new, something that comes from our part of europe. i hope that you will receive the support of polish diplomacy and polish politicians in these matters. first of all, this is the eastern partnership summit. it will take a lot of activity, including your own, in the final stages of preparing this partnership. i would like to draw attention to the absolutely essential issue of visas: let us do more than we can to ensure that our neighbours in the east - and we understand this very well - can come to europe without any problems. and the second issue, which concerns poland and lithuania equally, is that young people are leaving, they are leaving to look for work in the west. today, with new money to fight youth unemployment, we need a new program and a bold proposal from you. it has to be a proposal that actually makes young people stay in lithuania and poland, that they want to start companies there. we need your political courage and your proposal for the whole of europe, and i will expect that from the lithuanian presidency serious political proposals. and what is needed is what we have between us, and what i feel obliged to say here: that you use this time and your good relations with polish diplomacy, and the strong support of many polish politicians, to make a step so that these matters that differ between us and concern minorities, also look better after this presidency. not in the european forum, but between us, to make them look better. this is also a good opportunity for you, and we will be very strongly supporting the lithuanian presidency. i personally promise myself a lot, a lot after her.
madam president, mr. chairman, i have to go. the lisbon treaty reduced the presidency's importance to almost symbolic proportions. during the presidency of the council of the european union, the attention of the public is also focused on the problems of the country holding the presidency. for many years, the lithuanian authorities have discriminated against poles living in lithuania, who are defined as a national minority, despite being the indigenous inhabitants of these areas. they are treated with particular reluctance by successive lithuanian governments. poles are deprived of rights guaranteed by eu legislation, such as the right to use their native language in the offices (penalties are imposed for this), to write names in the original spelling, as well as the names of streets and towns in polish. another polish school is closing. fighting against polishness, the lithuanian government even allows the desecration of historic tombstones in polish cemeteries. i believe that lithuania, which is contributing 62 million euros for its presidency, should at least allocate one million euros to the renovation of polish tombstones, which would be a symbolic signal of a return to european standards and a credible endorsement of other activities of this country in the council of the european union.
mr. chairman, madam president, i have to go. as vice-president of parliament, responsible for cooperation with the eastern partnership countries, i should like to focus on this priority of the lithuanian presidency. i agree that the vilnius partnership summit has a chance to be a historic event. the initialling of the association agreements with moldova, georgia, and i believe also with armenia, and especially the signing of such an agreement and the free trade agreement with ukraine, will not only be a spectacular success of the presidency and the culmination of many years of arduous european diplomacy, but it will be a real geopolitical turn, laying, i hope, the foundation for a safer, more democratic, simply better future for our part of europe. the importance of this event should not, however, blind us to the problems, especially with regard to the rule of law and respect for human rights, which still exist in countries aspiring to political association with the european union. i want to make it clear from this point of view that we cannot think about the european perspective by keeping prisoners of conscience or political opponents locked up. in this situation, we expect that before the vilnius summit there will be no political prisoners in belarus. we also hope that the political situation in georgia will change, where more opposition politicians are going to prison, even though - like former prime minister merabishvili - they have not shied away from contact with the judiciary. and finally, we hope for a gesture, a humanitarian gesture, from the president of ukraine regarding his recent presidential rival, mrs. yulia tymoshenko. finally, madam president, i also wish you that the lithuanian presidency will make real progress in the negotiations on visa facilitation for citizens of our eastern neighbourhood countries. we know them well, the lithuanians, the poles, we know that these are people who deserve free entry into the european union. it'll be useful. i would like to add my colleague, mr paul kowal, to the hope that this presidency will also be a turning point in polish-lithuanian bilateral relations. i wish you that with all my heart!
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to refer to what mr. landsbergis said, showing a blue card in response to my information. well, all the information i have quoted here is true and does not come from unverified sources, namely, the removal of polish-language signs from private homes has led to criminal proceedings against ms. lucyna kotłowska, the director of the vilnius region, and also against (...) (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! madam president! i am very pleased that another central and eastern european country will now hold the presidency of the european union. i hope that this will allow europe to re-focus on the situation and challenges of the new member states. and we have a lot in common. i fully support the efforts of lithuania, but also poland and other central and eastern european countries to achieve full e.g. equalization of the level of direct subsidies for farmers. now that we have reached agreement on the shape of the cap for the coming years, the presidency is faced with the task of finalising the regulations and all of us - including here in the european parliament - are faced with the challenge of communicating in a proper way to the public how the relevant mechanisms for supporting production and rural development will work. i am also pleased that the presidency is tackling the issue of transeuropean energy and transport networks. strategically located, lithuania seems to understand the importance of connecting the continent through new transport corridors and unifying the energy transmission market for european integration. i regret that more funds were not allocated to the cef during the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework. i hope, however, that the presidency will also do its utmost to ensure that these smaller funds are spent properly.
mr. chairman, please! i welcome you, madam president, to the european parliament after a long break. madam president-in-office, let me emphasize once again, as our colleagues have already done, the crucial importance of the eastern partnership and the vilnius summit, and of the comprehensive and deep free trade agreement with ukraine and all the progress which could be made with georgia and moldova. but the energy issue could be an even more important sign in a long-term perspective of your presidency. two points are of crucial importance i encourage myself to give you advice as i am the rapporteur for the internal energy market in this parliament. the first point: implementation of all existing legislation by all the member states. this is the responsibility of the council as well. second, the selection of the most important cross-border connections projects for spending money from the connecting europe facility. stop energy islands in the european union. let us build a true european energy community.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, the debate has clearly shown that there are high expectations for the lithuanian presidency. the president-in-office said this morning that the citizens of europe are delivering and that now it is our turn to deliver as well. madam president, you are absolutely right. there are already some positive signs that recovery is returning to europe. we have managed to restore the trust in our common currency, the euro, but the longest crisis since the second world war is still with us. fiscal consolidation is painful and unemployment is still very high. to restore growth and work on sustainable jobs is our common top priority. therefore we in the commission are highly appreciative of the lithuanian presidency’s impressive programme. completion of the mff programming and sectoral programmes will open the way to eur 1 trillion investment in the eu budget being placed at the service of europe. the adoption of single market act i, progress on single market act ii, as well as, hopefully, adoption of the single resolution mechanism which the commission will propose next week, are all key measures which can help europe to return to the path of growth. under the lithuanian presidency we will have the first collective assessment of the draft national budgets under the toolbox procedures. as the president of the commission announced this morning, the commission is prepared to support investments under structural and cohesion policy, trans-european networks and the connecting europe facility through additional flexibility when assessing structural deficits. next year we will have the european elections. parliament became a true co-legislator during this legislative period and this should be reflected on the european political scene as well. we must give european political parties european legal statutes and create conditions for truly european-wide political debate. i am therefore very thankful, madam president-in-office, that your deputy minister for foreign affairs vytas leškevičius was ready to work on this proposal from day one. yesterday we had our first very promising informal meeting, which makes me confident that we can complete the work on this proposal in october. madam president-in-office, the commission knows how important the eastern partnership summit is for you. we are ready to work very closely on this and other priorities with you. as a commissioner and as a president you have been very well known for delivering results. i am absolutely convinced that your presidency will show the same energy and efficiency. i would just like to wish you good luck and much success.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to thank everyone for the debate. i tried to listen to everybody and of course we will, as much as we can, take all recommendations and wishes into account, including critical remarks. however, this can only be done if we all, the council, parliament and the commission, work very closely together. i would like to comment on a few questions that have been repeated in the chamber. i know that you are now going to vote on the mff and the response from council is that draft amending budgets no 1 and no 2 will be delivered to you as promised. on 9 july coreper will respond on draft amending budget no 1 and then by the autumn we will give you our promise on the second tranche. the council’s work on this will make it happen and this i hope will help you to vote for the mff. on the other questions, i take everything into account. i would like to thank the chamber and to say that we are facing a period of responsibility and delivery for all of us. let us rise to the challenge. i would like to thank you in advance for your future cooperation. (applause)
in writing. an analysis of the priorities of the lithuanian presidency shows the ambitious task that the country has set itself. the theme of the next six months, 'a credible, growing and open europe', is a clear illustration of the major challenges facing the union. all of them are more or less centred around economic issues. therefore, the main problem facing the lithuanian presidency is the growing economic crisis and the associated huge unemployment, especially among young people. we in central europe know very well how harmful and degenerate longterm unemployment is. but we also know that it is possible to overcome this problem. that is why i am particularly counting on the lithuanian government to be active here. it seems that the government's focus on exploiting the potential of the single market is the right decision. the internal market of 500 million is a huge asset for us, but we are not able to exploit it fully. the lithuanian presidency will be considered a success only if it succeeds in removing barriers to the single market. the second issue which i believe the lithuanian presidency should focus on is the signing of an agreement with ukraine on the establishment of a deep and comprehensive free trade area. it seems that this agreement could be a stimulus for the european economy and in the long run a win-win.
in writing. mr president, madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to express my appreciation and full support for the priorities of the lithuanian presidency of the eu which is about to begin. i wish you success both in the eastern partnership area and in the common energy policy. secure access to energy at the lowest possible cost is the key to the future and competitiveness of the eu economy and to new jobs. i would also like to take this opportunity to express my regret and condemnation of the vandalism of lithuanian inscriptions on information boards in the municipality of puńsk, where the lithuanian minority in poland lives. such cases, which violate the right of minorities to their identity, including their mother tongue, should be condemned and punished throughout the eu. in the context of this case, i have a question for the president: should the representatives of the polish minority in lithuania be punished for putting on information boards beside the signs in the state language (lithuanian) the signs in the minority language, and when will the minority law, which is the standard in eu countries, finally be passed in lithuania?
president, madam president, i heard with great pleasure that one of your official priorities of the lithuanian presidency is to furthering the better coordination in the external dimension of eu energy policy. as was underlined at the european council in may, the external dimension of energy policy must be reviewed and expanded and strengthen. we must especially ensure a level playing-field vis-à-vis third country energy producers and our energy contracts. no member state should be held hostage to the political whims of an external supplier. the lithuanian presidency will be building on the work started during the polish presidency. now is the time to make this policy a reality. in order to be part of this debate, i hope that the presidency can ensure that the parliament, led by its itre committee, that it will be consulted in this work. this is especially important in light of the next european council meeting dedicated to energy in december and any possible reform of the treaties in 2014 and beyond. once again, i congratulate you on making energy one of your priorities. we look forward to helping in any way we can. thank you.
in writing. lithuania, like poland on 1 july 2011, is heading the european union and, like poland, is facing this important task for the first time, taking over the eu presidency from ireland. the lithuanians were not alone in preparing for this important office. slovenia, the czech republic, cyprus and of course poland offered their help, advice and experience. lithuania has adopted the model of a presidency run from the permanent representation in brussels. the lithuanian presidency's motto is 'a credible, developing and open europe'. lithuania's priorities for the eu presidency are primarily the eastern partnership, strengthening the position and activation of the baltic sea countries, strengthening the external borders of the european union, and ensuring energy security. energy policy and energy security for lithuania the most energy dependent country in the european union is a priority. in the coming months, the presidency will focus on the creation of a common energy market. for the countries of central and eastern europe, november 28 will be a very important date. the eastern partnership summit is scheduled for that day. lithuanians are making efforts to have a representative of the belarusian authorities at the summit, which gives hope for a joint dialogue on the release of political prisoners and the democratization of political processes in this country.
mr. chairman, please! we just witnessed a moving ceremony. i was moved by the speech of the vice-president of parliament, but i would like to ask: what is the reason why the president of parliament was not in the chamber? what other duties have you found more important than presenting this award to mr. fariñas? can you tell me what was more important than being here?
mr. chairman, please! the irish presidency was in charge of the budgetary negotiations for the next programming period, which were also conducted in the context of the european union's very difficult economic situation. the final findings, while not entirely satisfactory, are nevertheless welcome as they provide a basis for further economic development, particularly for the poorer member states. they are also the result of a pragmatic approach to the current internal conditions of the countries, including their financial capacity. i hope that the main resources of the funds will be directed, in accordance with the principle of solidarity, to the regions most in need. only then will they have a chance to effectively strengthen their own economic potential. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (emah) is based on the principle of equal treatment of doctors and other health professionals. the european council also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. their implementation would be contrary to the community's existing rules of operation.
in writing. - ireland held the rotating presidency of the council under the motto of rebuilding europe's economy and creating new jobs. but her presidency ends with the highest unemployment in decades 5.6 million europeans are now out of work. but it must be made clear that this is not ireland's fault, but rather the state of the union as a whole. it is increasingly clear that europe's approach to the crisis has not been entirely appropriate and that there has been a mismatch between prudential measures and investment in labour markets and growth. during its presidency, ireland had to focus mainly on the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, which fortunately ended last week with a compromise. we welcome the political agreement and hope that the money from the multiannual budget will help to put the european economy back on the path to growth.
in writing. - i voted with satisfaction in favour of the political agreement on the multiannual financial framework. the european parliament and its president, martin schulz, have made clear their expectations for the new financial framework, namely: a mid-term review of the budget, flexibility, giving proper priority to those most in need, i.e. the poorest and unemployed young people, and guaranteeing the necessary revenue as early as 2013. i would like to pay tribute to the parliamentary negotiators, especially those representing the s&d group, ivailo kalfina and goran farma. i am not happy with the amount of the budget (€908 billion in payments and €960 billion in commitments), but these amounts could not be radically changed. we have made a significant improvement in the ability to use these very limited resources effectively.
in writing. − i am pleased that we have managed to reach a compromise and vote in favour of the agreement on the eu budget for 2014-2020 negotiated with the governments before the holidays. this is a very important signal for the member states and, above all, for their citizens, young people, entrepreneurs and other beneficiaries to whom the eu's aid will be directed. i am also very pleased with poland's success in these negotiations, as the new financial perspective will be another support for my country in its fight to achieve the appropriate level of development and to catch up with the countries of the old union. i hope that the 2014-2020 budget will help to effectively combat the crisis, create new jobs, especially for young people, and ensure a better life for all european union citizens. that is why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. - the irish presidency ended at the beginning of july. this is the seventh presidency of this country, but this one has been a particularly difficult one with many key negotiations. the economic turmoil also occurred during this period, including problems in providing aid to cyprus, which was struggling with the effects of the financial crisis. one of the main objectives set by ireland before taking up the presidency was to combat unemployment and the crisis which had been painfully experienced by ireland in the past. part of this fight is to promote growth through trade liberalization. the way forward was to launch talks on a transatlantic trade and investment agreement. this agreement can have a very positive impact on the development of the eu economy in the future. the accession process of croatia was finally completed, culminating in its accession to the union on 1 july. progress has also been made in accession negotiations with other countries in the balkan region. however, the most important issue on which the irish presidency worked was the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. these were very difficult negotiations, but we were able to reach an agreement. the outcome of these negotiations will affect the union for years to come. it is equally important to reach a political agreement between parliament, the council and the commission on the reform of the cap. if it were not for the involvement of the irish presidency, this agreement would be very difficult. in conclusion, the irish presidency has demonstrated its efficiency and commitment.
in writing. − olaf was set up to protect the financial interests of the european union and to fight fraud, corruption and other illegal activities affecting eu finances. it is intended to protect the image of the european union by detecting serious misconduct by its members and staff. in this context, it is most appropriate to strengthen the procedural rights of persons concerned by olaf proceedings, which is why i voted in favour.
mr. chairman, please! i believe that the rules must not be changed in the course of the game once they have been established, and that this undermines the principle of stability and certainty of trade, which is an important value that should also be recognised by the european commission. and i'm not going to mention that the price of electricity in europe is already twice as high as in the united states, let alone in the developing economies. and we're losing in this competition, our economy is losing. we're losing jobs in the end. the steel industry in europe in many places, in belgium, in france, in poland, where i come from, is experiencing huge problems and therefore there are threats of mass layoffs. all of this is the result of high energy prices. today, the price of energy, for example in huta częstochowa, is 50% of the total production price. the cost of human labor is 11% of the total cost of the farm. unfortunately, the increase in energy prices that this decision will cause will contribute to an even greater weakening of the european economy and to even greater redundancies.
in writing. − the report on the timetable for auctioning greenhouse gas emission allowances was again on the agenda. the draft was referred back to the committee responsible in april and today it returns in almost unchanged form. the rapporteur limited the commission's power to adjust the auction schedule in accordance with article 10 (4) of directive 2003/87/ec to exceptional circumstances only and required that this be done only once during the third eu ets clearing period. the introduction of backloading, i.e. the partial postponement of the auctioning of allowances in order to increase the price of these allowances in later years, is still too drastic an intervention by the european commission in the emission allowance market. i remain of the view that such a temporary restriction on the introduction of new allowances to be auctioned by member states in 2013-2015 will have a negative impact on revenues to the budgets of countries applying for the possibility of allocating free allowances under the derogation, i.e. for poland, which may lose up to eur 1 042 million over the period 2017-2020. i voted against the new report because i believe that it is consistently too invasive and that the level of interference in the emission allowance market by the european commission as presented may destabilise the market and have a negative impact on the economies of many member states, including poland.
in writing. − the re-introduction of the provision allowing the commission to dictate the timetable for changes and other actions in relation to the auctioning of co2 allowances is an attempt to use democratic procedures to take undemocratic, economically important decisions without consulting the member states. as you can see, the commission is determined to do harm to the economies of the most economically weak countries. in the name of what? i say, in the name of the climate dogma, which unjustifiably links climate change to anthropogenic co2 emissions. baseless, because it's based on an unscientific hypothesis. we should move away from the ets because this european system has not passed the practical test and is inconsistent with the kyoto decisions on this issue (e.g. regarding the emission limits imposed by the ec between 2008 and 2012), and also does not take into account all market elements, e.g. the absorption capacity of agriculture and forestry and the profits that these sectors of the economy derive from this trade. the current structure of this trading market is artificial and resembles the medieval trade in indulgences, which, together with the rejection of this practice, led as we know to great historical shocks. the ets is intended to provide a sort of 'leave' for a new 'climate religion'. the report had to be rejected in a decisive manner without a decision being taken by the council.
in writing. − this is one of the most controversial reports, as it deals with a key issue for countries whose energy system is based on hard coal. from my point of view, this is a drive to artificially inflate the price of emissions trading. this solution is not beneficial at all, and is even harmful to poland. i understand the genesis: the root cause of the problem is the reckless political agreement of the state authorities in 2007, and then the situation worsened in 2008, accepting these 6 instruments, among them the emissions trading. the decision-makers were under the illusion that poland would be given the 1990 emission level as a basis, and in practice the 2005 level was set for it. the years 1990-2005 led to the collapse of many mines, smelters and other emitters. it took a lot of effort to make huge changes in the economy that don't matter now. that's what led me to vote against the amendment. i expect that there will be substantial changes before the final vote on the legislative resolution.
in writing. - the voted amendment no 21 and the granting of the rapporteur a mandate to negotiate with the council is de facto a proposal for intervention in the ets market. this is a clear sign of the instability of this market in the european union. the current ets was designed on the basis of market instruments and laws, promoting emission reductions in a low-cost and economically viable way. the european commission's proposal on backloading is a dangerous precedent for the development of a community approach to energy security. artificial co2 price regulation is not an appropriate tool for innovation policy, it negates the basic conditions for the functioning of various industries. europe cannot pursue an isolationist policy and introduce ad hoc legislation. that is why i am strongly opposed to this type of regulation.
in writing. - i voted against matthias groote's report on the one-off intervention in the carbon market. i believe that interfering with this free market mechanism is contrary to the principles on which the european union is based. withdrawing such a large number of allowances will not help to stimulate the european economy in the midst of the global economic crisis, but will rather increase unemployment and slow down economic growth in the future. the emissions trading scheme was designed to gradually reduce carbon emissions by 2020. a sudden reduction in emission allowances will hit those countries that, despite the process of switching to so-called green energy, still rely on coal for their energy. poland is one such country. the reduction of emission allowances will increase electricity prices, which will affect the already overstretched european industry and the pockets of ordinary citizens.
in writing. − once again we voted in favour of changes to the functioning of the european emissions trading system. this fact alone proves that this is a matter of enormous importance, both for the european economy and for efforts to protect the environment and adapt to climate change. but i think we're going in the wrong direction all the time. since the kyoto protocol was implemented, the european union has made significant progress in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. the ets has introduced emissions limits that are disproportionate to those imposed on their industrial sectors by other major emitters: china, the us and india. the ets is a model for the functioning of the emissions trading scheme. however, this is an imperfect mechanism which allows us to be satisfied with a superficial reduction in emissions on the one hand, but on the other hand it is not a solution that treats all emitters equally, both geographically and sectorally. moreover, the new countries of central and eastern europe, whose economies are still based on fossil fuels through no fault of their own, bear a disproportionate burden of reducing emissions compared to western european economies. the future solution in this area would probably be to introduce a universal emission tax, applicable to both energy and industry as well as transport. but europe in crisis is not yet ready for this. for these reasons, i have decided to vote against the report.
in writing. − my abstention is a signal that both i and my europa plus group support a progressive energy policy based on the long-term interests of society. instead of blocking eu climate policy indefinitely, poland should consider how it can benefit from its implementation.
in writing. − the commission's proposal on backloading, i.e. the suspension of 900 million co2 emission allowances after 2013, is an attempt to administer a system that was supposed to be a market-based project. the introduction of backloading will raise energy prices in the eu, raise production costs and reduce the competitiveness of european industry in the context of the ongoing economic downturn. the exit from the crisis will be a natural market impulse to increase the price of allowances. that is why in today's vote and in the months of debate that have gone before, i have been clear in my opposition to this proposal. it should be noted, however, that today's decision is not final and does not presuppose that energy prices in europe will automatically increase. the project will now be the subject of debate and negotiation in the council, so it is up to the member states to decide whether and in what form the european commission's proposal will ultimately be adopted.
in writing. - i have expressed my support for the draft law prepared by mr gilles pargneaux on crossborder health threats. in view of the crises of recent years, such as the h1n1 influenza pandemic and the emergence of the e. coli strain, it is worthwhile to ensure that the health of community citizens is better protected. the range of cross-border health threats is very wide and it is therefore necessary to strengthen the system currently in place. it is therefore necessary to extend the means of assessing biological, chemical and environmental hazards. the legal guarantee of equal access to preventive measures in emergency situations is important. in addition, the measures proposed in the report are intended to improve coordination of crisis management measures. the responsibility for improving the existing system lies with the health safety committee. however, member states are required to develop preparedness and response plans for public health emergencies. to make it more effective, cooperation with the european commission, the european parliament, international organisations and third countries is envisaged. the introduction of an early response system will undoubtedly contribute to improving the safety and health protection of european union citizens.
in writing. − the financial transaction tax is an idea widely perceived as an opportunity to raise additional funds to fight the crisis of up to around eur 80 billion per year (eur 30-35 billion if implemented by 11 countries). given the eu's public opinion polls, about 65% of europeans are in favour of such a tax if it helps to fight the crisis. in addition, it should be noted that the financial transaction tax has a formula of so-called enhanced cooperation (realising the increased integration of eu countries based on the provisions of lisbon), i.e. it can only be adopted by countries that express such a will. it is a good thing that in order to protect the real economy, it was decided that the financial transaction tax will not be levied on the day-to-day financial activities of citizens or businesses, such as loans or insurance. the tax will also not be levied on traditional investment banking activities. nevertheless, the issue of the transaction tax is controversial and a source of concern. this is evidenced by the fact that only 11 countries have so far decided to adopt it. its functioning in these countries should be closely monitored for its impact on the competitiveness of the financial sector. past experience has shown that such a tax may have negative consequences for the financial markets of the countries that have adopted it.
in writing. − after experiencing one of the sharpest downturns in economic output among european countries in 2009, latvia is currently one of the eu’s fastest growing economies. its ability to successfully emerge from the crisis by carrying out growth-oriented reforms, won latvia today the european parliament’s support to join the eurozone on 1 january 2014. the result of the vote prepares the ground for a final decision of the ecofin on 9 july. while endorsing latvia’s membership of the single currency, parliament’s opinion also points out to the remaining challenges latvia must overcome before becoming the eurozone’s 18th member. the opinion calls on the latvian government to maintain the pace of the reforms, strengthen national economic governance structures and reduce its shadow economy. it further recommends that latvia adopts measures to remedy structural deficiencies in the labour market, and do more to ensure latvian banks are sound, in particular by increasing supervision of banks active in the non-resident deposit business. overcoming these challenges will allow latvia to use its eurozone membership to foster economic growth. from an eu perspective, a successful latvian membership will surely send a strong signal of confidence in the common currency to foreign investors and financial markets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. latvia has managed to meet the necessary criteria for the adoption of the new currency, and proved to be successful with the reforms that it has put in place. latvia does have several economic problems that need to be addressed and there is still progress to be made. however, i think that its determination shows that latvians are willing to focus on improving their economic situation and to work very effectively to stimulate growth.
in writing. - in the european union, hundreds of thousands of people are killed or injured in road accidents every year. many of the injured suffer serious injuries, often disabling. there are many reasons for this: poor road conditions, faulty equipment, poor driving behaviour, but also the time taken by the relevant services to respond to such situations, and it is often these first minutes that decide whether to save lives or avoid serious complications. i supported the resolution because it calls, among other things, for support for the european emergency number 112 and for the requirements for the full operation of emergency call centres to be met by 2015. it is also crucial to promote this issue among citizens, to spread information about this possibility. remember, this number is not only a convenient way to get help quickly when needed, but it also allows government agencies to inform citizens in the event of an impending natural disaster or other crisis. in a resolution adopted today, parliament also called for all newly registered vehicles in each member state to be equipped with an ecall system based on the 112 emergency number, so that the relevant services are informed and able to respond quickly in the event of an accident.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted in favour of the road safety resolution because, given that in 2011 alone more than 30 000 people were killed and almost 1 500 000 injured in road accidents in the european union, the current situation requires immediate action. we need to develop mechanisms that will effectively protect us from such tragic consequences of road traffic. i am aware that some motorists say that the current regulations seem too restrictive, but i believe that human life and health are paramount. in addition, we must remember that road users are not only drivers, but also pedestrians, cyclists and all other vehicle users, for whom we need to apply effective and innovative methods of enforcing traffic rules. as life and experience show, the best way to prevent events is to prevent them, not to react to them, and so i support the european parliament's call to the european commission and the member states to do so.
in writing. −the unimaginable scale of the losses caused by road accidents, such as loss of life, injury or property damage, is a problem that requires the knowledge and commitment of professionals and politicians across europe and their joint efforts. all europeans, nearly 500 million of them, use more or less similar vehicles. they also use roads in different member states, regardless of the borders between them, despite their different layout and different behaviour of traffic users, which is determined by historical, geographical, topographical, demographic and cultural factors. when we travel from country to country, we use a network of roads that are all different degrees of risk, sometimes as much as 3.5 times as much. that is why i think this resolution should have been adopted.
mr. chairman, please! i am somewhat concerned by the involvement of some mps and political circles who are challenging the systemic policies of prime minister viktor orbán. i do not share the view that the constitutional changes that have been made pose a threat to democracy. the main reservations seem to be related to the eu charter of fundamental rights, which is itself an imperfect document, in many cases failing to reflect the traditions and cultural values of individual countries. meanwhile, the provisions of the hungarian constitution effectively strengthen, among other things, the institution of marriage as a union between a man and a woman. they also take into account the christian background of the country. the aim of this report is not so much to examine the hungarian constitution as to make it dependent on the constitutional practices of other countries and on fundamental rights, even if only through questionable demands to strengthen the mandate of the fundamental rights agency. the commission, and not parliament, should carry out any investigative tasks in these matters, as it is the european commission that is the guardian of the european treaties.
mr. chairman, please! i voted against this proposal which was to stigmatize hungary for alleged violation of fundamental rights. i believe that these practices of the european commission, as well as of parliament, constitute a clear principle of subsidiarity, a clear violation of the principle of the sovereignty of the individual states which make up the european community. they are a clear expression of political aggression on the part of liberal-left circles, which cannot accept that with great effect and positive result prime minister victor orbán is introducing economic reforms in hungary, and at the same time reforms of an identity-ideological nature, referring to christian values that have been introduced into the constitution, referring to god that has been introduced into the constitution, referring finally to such basic norms of european civilization as stating that marriage is a relationship between a man and a woman. it is causing outrage, it is causing great anger and it is violating certain democratic standards and the good morals of this parliament, and it is endangering the future.
in writing. - i voted against the ep report criticising the constitutional reforms in hungary. in my view, the report interferes too much with the internal affairs of a member state. the government of viktor orbán, democratically elected by the citizens of his country, has full legal legitimacy to introduce changes in the legal order of hungary, as long as they do not threaten the democratic system in the country. despite some disturbing regulations, rui tavares went too far in his report, criticizing the changing nature of worldview and morality. in this respect, the european union should not interfere in the internal politics of the member states. i would like to draw particular attention to the reference to article 7 of the eu treaty, which provides that serious breaches of democratic principles may be subject to sanctions, including suspension of the country's right to vote in the eu council. the reference to this article in the case of hungary is, in my opinion, exaggerated, dictated by political prejudice. reference to this article is an over-interpretation of the rules laid down in the treaties.
mr. chairman, please! the increasing frequency of floods in european countries requires special attention to their potential consequences, especially for the inhabitants. many people suffer because of the lack of preparedness of the infrastructure to deal with this cataclysm. the recent floods have killed dozens of people and left thousands homeless. in order to adequately respond to such disasters, investments to minimise the potential negative effects of flooding, such as investments in appropriate drainage infrastructure, are essential. improving flood control capacity is also necessary. in addition, the procedures for triggering union assistance mechanisms should be simplified to the greatest possible extent. i hope that the requests will be dealt with swiftly and that the solidarity funds will be used to provide assistance to the affected countries, in a way that is appropriate to the scale of the disaster. the flexibility of the reprogramming of measures can also contribute to supporting the reconstruction of flood-affected areas. finally, i would like to extend my sincere thanks to all those involved in the recent flood relief efforts, including those saving lives and property.
a cataclysmic flood can have a terrible destructive power. we have seen this again in europe, as we have seen the hell and suffering of the people who were affected by these huge floods that have hit central europe, including germany, the czech republic and other countries. i would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with all those affected by this disaster. but we should also learn some lessons for the future. we now know for sure that this is unfortunately a recurring phenomenon, that these huge floods probably, unfortunately, i wish it were different, but they don't end with this event that we had the opportunity to observe recently. it is therefore necessary to make all instruments more flexible so that we can respond more effectively to any such event in the future. we should be learning lessons for the future. and i hope that happens.
in writing. - i voted in favour because the flood risks have shown that there is a great need for closer cooperation in this area in the eu. this is all the more so as the risk of flooding due to climate change, which is resulting in rising sea and ocean levels, is expected to increase in the coming decades. despite the measures taken by poland, it is still at risk of flooding. an example of this is the lublin region, which is struggling with floods like the one that occurred in april. roads, houses, and allotment gardens were flooded. infrastructure and sports facilities were destroyed. the health, property, and lives of the people living there were at risk. in june, the situation was repeated. the activities were carried out in many municipalities and towns. after consulting with the residents, it was found that many houses and blocks had been flooded, and the rising water levels in the rivers had flooded some fields, making it difficult or even impossible for the local people to work. some crops have been destroyed, which may deprive farmers of the means of subsistence. streets in the villages turned into creeks, making it difficult to move around. flood warnings have been issued in many places. in view of the above, lublin should be considered as a flood-prone region and included in the talks and discussions.
in writing. − global climate change is often cited as the main cause of the increase in the frequency and size of floods. but that's only part of the truth. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european strategy for the environment, based on the commission's communication of 25 june 2013 entitled 'towards a sustainable and sustainable energy future - the eu's energy strategy for the 21st century'. the major material losses resulting from floods are primarily due to the increasing urbanisation and settlement of floodplains, and thus to poor land use planning. the water improvement facilities both large and ordinary ditches are also inefficient. the appropriate coordination of services at interregional and interstate level is a very important issue. cross-border risk management strategies often succeed in minimising the effects of floods. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the water management system needs to be improved, both at transnational and national and regional levels. specific programmes and action plans should be developed and their implementation monitored.
in writing. − structural reforms of the eu banking sector will make it more transparent and easier to correct. the hleg report provides a sound basis for structural reform.
in writing. − in view of the immense risk of bankruptcy of the banking sector in the eu and the consequent deterioration of the economic situation in europe, changes are needed in this area. the proposed reform introduces a regulatory framework that reduces the risk of a deepening crisis and increases the security of the community countries and their citizens. the actions of banks (particularly private ones) will be clearer, based on long-term projects, taking into account a wider range of risks (this is due to the fact that they do not always produce a true and fair accounting of their activities, which in a crisis situation affects the average payer). protecting taxpayers, retail customers is one of the reform priorities. banks should not be allowed to take precedence over the public interest. the weakness of the european banking system, which is closely linked to the crisis in europe, confirms the need to create an efficient system for effective financial supervision on the one hand and crisis management on the other. it is important to remember that we must do everything we can to avoid a deepening of the current recession, while at the same time thinking about avoiding further destabilisation of the banking sector. finally, as regards the issue of enhancing fair and sustainable competition, which is a problem today, we can safely say that it is essential to maintain a healthy banking sector and also allows the financing of the real economy through universal access to banking services.
in writing. - there is no doubt that it was risky financial instruments that contributed to the banking crisis. the key question to be asked is whether the taxpayer should bear the cost of such risky operations and to what extent banks can engage in such activities. the european union now faces the great challenge of creating a safe, stable and efficient banking system that meets the needs of the economy. national initiatives in the field of structural reforms require a european framework. they will protect the eu's single market and counter fragmentation, while respecting the diversity of national banking models. in principle, the reform should be based on reducing investment risk, ensuring competitiveness and introducing separate treatment of core activities, including payments, deposits and loans. enabling effective resolution and restructuring and orderly winding-up is also crucial for changing banking culture. the structure of the banking sector should be simplified. this may be done by legally separating certain types of risky financial activities from deposit-taking banks.
in writing. − the ecr group does not object to member states initiating structural reform of their banking sectors, including the full separation of the various banking activities, if they consider it necessary. however, the ecr does not believe that a single eu framework for structural reform will be able to meet the different needs or mitigate the effects of bank failures in each member state. what may be beneficial for one country may not be the right solution for another, and that is why the principle of subsidiarity should apply. the recent agreement on capital requirements implementing basel iii through crd4 addresses the structural reform of the european banking sector in some ways by setting minimum capital standards for credit institutions while allowing member states to go further in the area of prudential requirements if they so wish. the legal framework on capital requirements was appropriate, but the normative legal framework on structures is no longer.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the commission’s annual report lacks important factors that are necessary for the prevention of fraud. for one, there is not enough transparency about expenditure and beneficiaries. the unknown information creates large loopholes for fraud to occur, without anybody’s knowledge. secondly, the high conviction rates in member states clearly show that there is need for further action on customs and vat fraud. this report successfully outlines the effectiveness of this further action to fight fraud.
in writing. - it's a good and much-needed report. i would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, mr derek vaughan. the resolution touches on a number of areas where the eu's financial interests may be at risk. recommendations to member states on criminal law, tax systems and customs were not omitted. recommendations and assessments concerning the functioning of olaf are important. i hope that this resolution will bring about the changes we all need as soon as possible, because they can mean benefits in billions of euros and in changing attitudes and behaviour.
in writing. - in the vote on the report by mrs andrei češková, i supported the european parliament's resolution on the integrated control framework. after an assessment of the implementation of the budget and the results of the analysis carried out by the european commission, it should be stressed that the current system of monitoring and internal control does not provide the court of auditors with sufficient guarantees as to the reliability of the expenditure of union funds. the key objective of the amendments is to obtain a certificate of the reliability of the transactions and their legality. experience so far has shown that the european union's internal control system is lacking in many respects in a matter as important as the implementation of the budget. changes are therefore necessary to reduce transaction errors and the risk of waste of funds. the development of a clearly defined and detailed control strategy is therefore necessary to guarantee the correctness of the transactions at every level of the european union. member states are required to develop a common model for annual budget management certificates. it is important to establish a clearly defined and detailed control strategy. however, it should be borne in mind to take into account the costs of carrying out the checks. all these actions are aimed at a more rational and flexible implementation of the budget and maximising the benefits. the sound management of funds has a positive impact on the protection of the community budget and on public confidence in the union institutions.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the right to information is without doubt one of the most fundamental rights in the european union. meanwhile, in greece, a month ago, greek citizens were deprived of this right. the last time such an incident occurred was during the german occupation. the fact that citizens are denied free access to information is contrary to the fundamental values that we have been called upon to uphold here in the heart of europe. freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of expression are very simple principles and there is no room for double standards here. yesterday, in this room, hungarians were attacked for, among other things, imposing restrictions on advertising during elections. the european union is silent on the denial of access to national television to millions of greeks. as in the case of poland, where millions of citizens, catholics, in poland are denied the right to tv trwam the largest catholic television claiming the rightful place on the digital multiplex is not able to present catholic content. it is here, in the european parliament, that we should speak out loudly about this, and ask for the rights of all these television stations, because it is the european union that should be the model in respect of human rights and freedom of expression, otherwise it will become a caricature of itself. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. my dear fellow! it seems to me that access to public television in every country of the european union is an inalienable right of every nation of the community. the more public television is available - and it is unacceptable to deprive millions of greeks of this - the more the greeks will be able to participate in public life, in public debate. the fact that the public television is being withdrawn is in fact a denial to the greek people, a proud european nation, of the right to participate in public life. that's what i wanted to say. that's how i wanted to move this case.
madam president! it is very good that the european parliament is so sensitive to any sign of restrictions on media freedom. today we're talking about the closure of the greek national broadcaster. unfortunately, this is not the only country in the european union where political pressure is being used to restrict freedom of speech. the house has repeatedly drawn attention to the practice of the present polish authorities, which is contrary to the spirit and letter of the law of the union, by blocking the broadcasting on the digital multiplex of the only catholic television station in poland, telewizja trwam. in defense of catholic television in poland, more than 2.5 million signatures were spontaneously collected by citizens, and hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets of cities. as in greece, the polish authorities are obscured by internal regulations and regulations. the case has a european dimension. therefore, i ask that after the holidays in the european parliament, a debate like today's on the restriction of the freedom of catholic media in poland, with special attention to tv trwam, be organized.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate is a continuation of the alleged disclosure of the national security agency's data-gathering mechanisms. the commission has been monitoring radio and electronic communications since its inception. so the disclosure of the inner workings of american intelligence should certainly not be seen as a revelation. in the face of the constant threat of terrorism, the acquisition of data of fundamental importance for the prevention of potential attacks appears to be of great value. in order to fulfil their citizens' security tasks, states must use appropriate tools. this is particularly true in the face of the widespread activities of criminal organisations on the internet. national security matters remain the responsibility of the member states. i see no good reason why the european institutions should be involved in this case. the european commission's role is to ensure that the community rules on the protection of personal data, including the internet, are respected.
in writing. political tensions in egypt are at their highest since president morsi came to power and even since the overthrow of hosni mubarak's dictatorship in 2011. numerous protests, clashes, arbitrary arrests are the reality of egypt today. the death toll is rising and the danger of an escalation of an already tense situation. the most important thing now is to restore security and public order in egypt, with full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. we need a peaceful and swift solution to the political crisis in egypt, which is only possible with the involvement of all political parties. i would like to highlight the particular disadvantage of women, who are more likely to be victims of violence and other forms of degrading treatment by the security forces during demonstrations. egypt has the smallest number of women in parliament in the world, just nine. the situation of ngos also remains at risk. i therefore call on the egyptian authorities to respect the freedoms of expression, association, peaceful assembly and freedom of the press and media. the european neighbourhood policy and the eu's relations with the egyptian government should be based on respect for human rights. i therefore call on the high representative to hold the egyptian authorities and president morsi to account for their commitments to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms. financial support to egypt should be conditional on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
mr president, there are reasons for all of us to be concerned in the european union: the turnout to the european elections is low; the european elections are contested in the shadow of national concerns; the legitimacy of european institutions has been questioned. citizens do not have an impression that they are well informed about european integration and that they have an influence over the political direction taken by eu institutions. therefore, we have decided to do something about it, namely to europeanise the elections. that is why we call on the european political parties to nominate their candidates for the commission presidency, who would in turn conduct a europe-wide campaign. whoever wins, in accordance with the lisbon treaty, would lead the european commission on the basis of a clear political mandate. for the first time we would have a link between peoples’ votes and the direction taken by the european commission. there is a chance that citizens will appreciate the difference, but most importantly through the europeanisation of the debate, we have a chance to get one central message across and mobilise people – and i believe we can mobilise them even in great britain. it is in the european parliament where decisions impacting citizens’ daily concerns are addressed. here we actually take on the biggest and the most important challenges that the european union faces. in most of the national parliaments, they spend 50% of the time just translating what we agree here into their national legislation. i think that if we were successful in getting that message across, maybe the elections would matter even more to european citizens. in eliciting that hope, i would like to thank the commission and andrew duff. i think that any kind of criticism could be directed towards andrew duff, but definitely not that he is prejudiced.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to support all those voices which (in my opinion) rightly signalled that candidates for president of the european commission should be presented at the beginning of the campaign for the elections to the european parliament. it would indeed give a better chance to discuss the problems of the whole union, and not just to bring various internal disputes to the eu forum. the truth is that this is the position of parliament, and we must also take into account the position of individual countries, in particular the position of the heads of government of those countries. i would like to ask the commissioner, since you have taken a positive view of this idea, what is the actual position of the various governments? so that it's not like we're here accepting something that we think is right and then we're blocked at the government level.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 4 july 2013 at 12.00 noon.
the next item is the report by ms monica hohlmeier, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on attacks against information systems and repealing council framework decision 2005/222/jha (http://ec.europa.eu/prelex/liste_results.cfm?cl=pl&reqid=0&doctype=com&docyear=2010&docnum=0517" c7-0293/2010 http://www.europoearl.europa.eu/il/popups/ficheprocedure.do?lang=en&reference=2010/0273(cod)) (a7-0224/2013).
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 4 july 2013 at 12.00 noon.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on arms exports: implementation of council common position 2008/944/cfsp.
the question asked by raising the blue card. - the honourable member! i have great respect for you, but i would just like to ask you if you remember how the afet committee voted on the draft report you mentioned, mrs lösing? it was as follows: no member voted in favour of the report, one abstained, and all the other members, several dozen people from all the political groups, voted against it.
madam president, minister, i have to go. of course, all would like to live in a world of peace, where no one fights against another, where there are no weapons. i agree with the previous speakers, but that is not the world we live in, and it is in that world, it must be clearly stated, that the european union has de facto the best, the most unique and effective system of arms export controls in the world. this is a system and a control over arms exports that neither the united states nor russia nor china nor any other major arms producer in the world has. today, the european union is an example for others and - i am sure we will disagree with mrs lösing on this - i believe that this control is working, that it is effective and that it is sufficient for the present. none of the european union countries have exported weapons to countries in armed conflict in recent years, to countries that were at war. and this is a basic principle that fortunately all the arms-producing countries in the european union are following. and it was the european union - it's worth remembering - that helped to develop international standards, because it was the eu countries that initiated the legal regulation, the arms trade treaty, which was adopted by the un general assembly at the beginning of april. this treaty will hopefully contribute to stability and i believe that mrs lösing and i share the same view that it will contribute to peace and security in the world, that it will counter terrorism and crime worldwide. that's our common goal.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. georgia needs help. it is a european country, with a european culture, a european history, and i believe that in the future it will be a member of the european union, even if it is a distant future. the european union's support for georgia is important in this (let's be clear) political match between the west and russia for the country. russia is rebuilding its sphere of influence, rebuilding its imperial ambitions and intentions. georgia must therefore be helped, especially as it clearly affirms its european and western aspirations. this aid must be controlled - this is obvious - and certain conditions must be imposed on tbilisi. by european standards, it's not a good thing if the former prime minister goes to jail. nevertheless, georgia should be, is and will be a partner. we are the richest side and we must support georgia.
madam president! georgia has for years been a leader in the implementation of democratic transitions in the eu-important region of the south caucasus. president saakashvili's rule was a period of prosperity, a period of democratic change, of fighting corruption, of economic development. however, today's georgia and what is happening in that country must be worrying. the imprisonment, the arrest of members of the previous government, the persecution of the opposition, the denial of the opposition of an active and equal participation in public life is certainly a warning sign and should concern us all. there is no doubt that georgia must be helped, georgia must be supported, not only politically but economically. however, without clarifying the recent events we are witnessing, georgia should seek this assistance in an even stronger and more structured way, one of the conditions being that the cases that concern it should be clarified, and i would make the continuation of economic aid to this country dependent on the fulfilment of these conditions.
madam president! georgia is a very important country in the region and an important partner of the european union. over the past 9 years, georgia has made tremendous progress in the development of the country, in the development of state institutions and in the development of the economy. georgia is a leader when it comes to fighting corruption these are not president saakashvili's figures, but transparency international's figures. georgia is, as the foreword said, one of the most attractive places to invest, and this is the world bank's data. georgia's unemployment rate has fallen, and over the past nine years, the average income of the population has increased. there are also some disturbing signs from the past few months. well, the national bureau of statistics has said that economic growth is most likely to be 0% this year instead of the 6% that the government had predicted. foreign direct investment fell by 16%. trade with the european union countries also decreased. the government has stopped the construction of several key investments in roads, railways, etc. vat revenues have decreased, as have deposits of georgian citizens in georgian banks. all of this is thought provoking, but of course it cannot stop our aid to georgia. i am very much in favour of the european union helping georgia. nevertheless, we must take into account what has been said by mrs lunacek, mr czarnecki, mr poręba and many other speakers, namely that the european union's financial assistance to georgia must be conditional on compliance with certain international standards, including, of course, democratic standards. it's going to be hard to convince european taxpayers that our money is going to a country where the opposition is in prison.
the first item on the agenda is the commission statement on the completion of the digital single market (2013/2655 ((rsp)).
mr. chairman, please! i am convinced that the full launch of the digital single market will increase competitiveness and boost the development of the knowledge-based economy. the increasing availability of broadband internet access is stimulating a steady increase in business activity on the internet. this is particularly reflected in cross-border trade. the further development of the digital market should therefore be seen as a political priority. to this end, the main focus should be on removing barriers such as complex vat rules, double taxation and selective invoices. the communication infrastructure, particularly the development of mobile networks, is inadequate in many regions and requires urgent investment. it is in the interest of consumers to strengthen the governance of the digital single market and to ensure full net neutrality. the commission should also continue to support micro-enterprises' online activities through appropriate support programmes and encourage them to expand their range of services, thereby activating at least some of the unemployed citizens.
mr. chairman, please! the digital single market is of great importance for entrepreneurship. european companies, operating across borders, have to deal with 27 legal systems, which generates high costs and is a burdensome barrier, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. i would remind you that smes have generated 85% of new jobs in recent years. i see the digital single market as an opportunity to reduce red tape, to internationalise smes, to improve the legal and administrative environment in which they operate. i am glad that the commissioner also spoke about the potential of electronic commerce and the initiatives planned, particularly in the context of the security of electronic payments. this is of great importance for smes that are waiting for concrete action. the full digital market is also an opportunity for new companies to enter the market. the potential is therefore huge, because not only will there be a chance to create a powerful internet economy, but also companies operating in other sectors will benefit from this, precisely because administrative barriers will be removed. it's got to be a fact. the digital single market must work, otherwise businesses will not trust the internet, they will be afraid to use the opportunities it offers to grow their businesses. another issue is the services directive, which, if properly implemented, will also help to develop the digital single market. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs.
mr. chairman, please! we have talked a lot about this today and i fully agree that we have already achieved a great deal in the european single market, although there is still a great deal to be done. i am very pleased, commissioner, that we are able to work intensively with you in this area, but if we remember that only 6 out of 10 european e-shops sell cross-border, it turns out that this market is not yet exploited. there are many barriers: different vat rates in the european union, postal services that are inefficient and close within the borders of the member states. there's so much to do. we need to build trust by improving security, transparency in the digital marketplace, including, of course, by ending roaming. i would remind my liberal colleagues that the liberals have not supported us in achieving the lowest possible roaming rates and i hope that has changed. we need to communicate much better with the citizens of the european union, both business and consumers, to use their knowledge and experience. and then, i think, that market will be more open and there will be a better chance of getting out of the crisis.
mr. chairman, please! the internet and related new technologies play a very important role in the european commission's programmes to stimulate the eu economy. building a knowledge-based economy and access to a global network will help europe maintain its current position in a world where competitiveness is becoming more and more important. the recognition of the global network as a huge opportunity to stimulate the single market, especially by increasing the cross-border exchange of goods and services, is particularly important today. on the other hand, we should be aware of the dangers of the internet and new communication technologies. the european commission's efforts to combat the dangers that are increasingly emerging from the dynamic development of global networks are therefore to be commended. bad advice, money or identity theft, and commercial fraud are just a few of the harmful behaviors online. the development of risk-mitigation mechanisms should go hand in hand with the development of the use of the digital market in economic and social development.
i have received one draft resolution. lodged in accordance with rule 110 (2). i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on thursday 4 july 2013 at 12.00 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by mr jean lambert, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the impact of the crisis on access to care for vulnerable groups (2013/2044 (ini)) (a7-0221/2013)
madam president! the draft resolution we are considering draws our attention to the situation of all those who, because of their limited financial resources, are unable to take full advantage of health care for purely economic reasons. this applies in particular to those who have lost their right to health insurance because of homelessness or long-term unemployment. as a result, they are at risk of social exclusion and their living conditions are deteriorating. it is therefore good that the european parliament is aware of this important problem, and that it sends a clear signal to the european commission and the governments of the member states that the economic crisis cannot justify restrictions on access to public health care for the permanently homeless or unemployed.
madam president! it is a truism to say that the current economic crisis has reduced the availability of care services. it is clear that the budgetary difficulties of the member states have forced huge cuts in social spending. the question that most european economists and politicians are now asking, however, is whether these cuts were too deep. there are increasing voices indicating that the drastic cuts in budget spending have only deepened the crisis and led to the impoverishment of society. it is no secret that much of the blame for this lies with the european commission, which has been pushing for solutions within the troika. it is time for her to reflect on herself and come up with suggestions for improvement. i agree with jean lambert that the lessons of the european year of older persons and intergenerational solidarity are worth drawing on. it is also worthwhile that the programmes prepared by the commission in the framework of the so-called european semester focus not only on financial stability but also take into account long-term social investment. it is increasingly clear that the recovery measures undertaken bring short-term savings and unfortunately cause long-term problems. today's neglect of health, social security and support for the most vulnerable will force member states to spend even more in the future. therefore, any savings must be made wisely and be preceded by an analysis of the potential problems they may cause in the future.
madam president! european data are actually very bleak when it comes to road accidents. they show that some 40 000 europeans die in road accidents and that some 150 000 europeans are estimated to become disabled each year, and it is projected that road accidents were the ninth leading cause of death in 2004 and will be the third by 2020. this is not a very happy figure at a time when millions of europeans are taking their holidays by car. a working 112 can save thousands of lives and health. i agree with the voices of my predecessors. i welcome both initiatives of the european commission on e-call. e-call can save, it is estimated, almost 3 000 lives a year, but it will never work if the 112 number, which is easy to use and known to everyone, covering the whole of europe, is not operational. this is a matter of great importance to us today.
madam president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. again, today we are talking about the problem not so much of the lack of legislation, but of the lack of implementation. several years after the adoption of parliament's resolution, the data show that many europeans are still unaware of the existence of the 112 number, and those who are aware of it often find that the system simply does not work and instead of receiving quick help, are advised to call another number. i wonder, therefore, what specific steps will be taken and, above all, when they will be taken, particularly as regards the possibility of using the number 112 in both directions, i.e. for example to inform citizens of an impending natural disaster. the european parliament also adopted a resolution on road safety during the same plenary session, stressing the need to install the ecall system in cars, which is linked to the use of the 112 number, in order to inform the relevant services of an accident as soon as possible and thus enable them to react more quickly. however, this requires the implementation of the 112 system. the commission has already adopted the relevant proposals, but the question of implementation is again raised. i ask the commission to comment on this matter.
madam president! question no 112 is an element of confidence in a common europe. today, in a time when we have no borders, when so many people are using mobility, the issue of safety is a fundamental one. so, having regulations, we should just implement them better in the practical system. i think that there is still a lot of work to be done to examine the state of implementation of the 112 number in the individual member states, it works everywhere. but what is needed is better coordination, and a system of multilingual responsiveness, knowing that in the so-called golden hour, the chances of survival after an accident decrease by the minute. this is why it is so important to implement in the practical system of location identification, above all better communication mainly in the border zone. finally, i think that in order to promote the idea, we should encourage all mobile operators to inform the public of the possibility of using the 112 number whenever they cross the internal borders of the european union. this is a free publicity stunt for citizens who cross the border.
first of all, i would like to congratulate our colleague, mrs petra kammerevert, on the excellent report she has produced for the committee on culture. this is an important report on the changing media market, because technology and the ability to aggregate satellite, internet, digital and other signals on a single screen are creating new opportunities today. the important questions that have been raised concern first and foremost the issues of protecting children from advertising, the issues of limiting the amount of advertising per hour of transmission, knowing that this television will be dedicated to the recipient in terms of his preferences and possibilities of use. these are also great opportunities for the use of television by disabled people, by the deaf, by the visually impaired (the issue of equipment adaptation). so we think this report is a very good signal to discuss television in the new financial framework, to include both the linear and non-linear systems. so it's good that we're asking these questions. we are probably going to have to change the directive in the future, but for now, we must say that this report has been a good discussion, and i thank you very much for it.
mr. chairman, please! georgia remains a steadily developing partner country with strong pro-european aspirations. the union's macro-financial assistance to that country is intended to support its financial stability. this is a very important task, and it should also be seen as an investment in people's relationships. the eu's strategic objective should be to enlarge to include the eastern partnership countries, and the aim now is to sign an association treaty. the united states also provides funding to raise the standards of the armed forces in order to bring georgia closer to nato. this is a policy that is in line with the security interests of the member states of the union. in addition, in the case of georgia, the threat from russia remains very real. it is very important that the ordinary procedure remains the main rule for the settlement of macro-financial assistance. although more stringent conditions for the aid were agreed, the agreement reached will allow the disbursement of funds earmarked for tbilisi.
in writing. - i supported the report on further macro-financial assistance to georgia presented by mr vital moreira, in accordance with the compromise reached by the council, parliament and the commission. the main issue was to reach an agreement on the applicable macro-financial procedure for granting grants. it is agreed that georgia should receive eur 46 million to support economic stabilisation and balance of payments needs. georgia will be able to cope with the severe macroeconomic problems and thus move closer to the structures of the european union. georgia's economy was largely weakened by the war in 2008. the case of providing support to georgia has been the subject of debate over the current, unclear legal rules. in the context of macro-financial assistance to georgia, it has been established that the advisory procedure applies to grants of up to eur 90 million. the signed agreement provides for stricter conditions for receiving funds under the aid granted. however, the rules for deciding on similar cases have become more transparent as a result of the current legislative process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the adoption of the 'joint text approved by the conciliation committee concerning a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to georgia'. the political situation in georgia is complex, disturbing and unfortunately not very optimistic. there are many indications that we have a case of political revanchism. it's very dangerous for georgia itself. however, macro-financial assistance is needed and should not be jeopardised by the misguided policies of the current georgian government.
we live in a time of particular risks associated with the functioning of terrorism and other criminal groups that also operate in the online sphere. it is hardly surprising, then, that nations, including the united states, have resorted to various intelligence techniques to gather information that can help protect the free world from such threats. but it's not good if there's some kind of breach of trust, which i think we can talk about in this case. however, this must be seen in terms of a conflict of values, because the overriding value for us europeans should be to guarantee a sense of security to people who choose democracy, to people who choose human rights, and to people who are increasingly threatened by various terrorist organisations. but that doesn't change the fact that the united states must count on its allies, and respect the basic principles of trust that are the foundation of good international cooperation.
in writing. − cyberattacks are becoming more commonplace nowadays. the attacks on information systems and the political attacks associated with organised crime are particularly dangerous. they represent a very serious threat both at eu and global level. the cross-border nature of cyber-attacks requires greater coordination and close cooperation between the competent judicial authorities and the private sector. the directive provides for the harmonisation of criminal legislation on attacks against information systems in all member states. the additional point of the document is to impose stricter penalties on criminals who carry out large-scale cyberattacks or attacks whose scope causes serious damage. i believe that maintaining cybersecurity is a huge challenge that the european union must face. it is essential for the proper development of the internal market, for a competitive economy, but above all for guaranteeing the security of all citizens of the european union.
in writing. − with the huge advancements in technology, cybercrime security has to be constantly updated to ensure its effectiveness. i agree with the approach that is being taken to the directive updates. tougher common penalties show that cybercrime is a serious offense and will not be treated lightly. shorter delays in information sharing decrease the gaps that enable cybercrime to do its damage. greater information sharing creates more transparency and increases security. these features successfully implement a system to prevent cybercrime. i voted in favour of this report.
mr. chairman, please! the collection of information by intelligence agencies around the world is an undeniable fact. the united states is the part of the free world that is engaged in a war on terrorism that threatens innocent people at random. this is what londoners, madriders, and more recently, bostoners have found. it could happen anywhere. terrorists are willing to murder and kill random people because that's the meaning of their activity, that's the satisfaction and the power they get. it is hardly surprising, then, that nations, including the united states, are taking intelligence measures to prevent this. it's certainly not that the european parliament is the most attentive to the information that comes out of leaks. no, the most closely watched mechanisms of the us intelligence services are those most affected by this, all the terrorists led by al qaeda. they are grateful to those who reveal the mechanisms of the services that are designed to spy on them. so we have to take that into account.
in writing. - recently, there has been a lot of talk in the international press about the mysterious prism program, under which the us national security agency (nsa) was to build an internet surveillance system, with the participation of the largest it companies, that would allow it to obtain almost all the information about each of us. the affair was started by the guardian, which exposed a massive billing scandal, followed by further revelations by the washington post. the revelation of this information was followed by an avalanche of denials from both the us government and the allegedly involved it giants. today, however, prism is no longer a rumor, with even the vice-president of the european commission, viviane reding, speaking out on the matter, arguing that the case shows that 'a clear legal framework for the protection of personal data is not a luxury or a restriction, but a fundamental right'. the americans argue that the surveillance of foreign nationals is allowed under section 702 of the foreign intelligence surveillance act, but that the information is obtained only after obtaining a warrant from secret courts. how can european citizens defend themselves in such a situation? in addition to vigilance and prudent use of the internet, they should be supported by eu legislation. i hope that the package on personal data protection that is being drawn up by the libe commission will provide sufficient legal protection for european network users. the controversial prism programme has continued to attract the attention of the european data protection supervisors (dpsis). berlin's giodo peter schaar has already demanded an explanation from the us authorities on the matter, adding ironically that he is not reassured that the project was not aimed at us citizens, but only at people living outside the us. i look forward to the commission's response and to proposing effective solutions against such unconstitutional practices.
in writing. - we live in the 21st century, the age of smartphones, tablets and acta. in the age of internet communication. you'd think privacy would be one of the most important human rights. unfortunately, not all of our allies are behaving in accordance with established standards, not all of them are following the rules, and not all of them are acting openly and fairly. the united states, as a democratic country, should set an example by acting as the european union's main ally. since 2000, and with echelon, cybersecurity has become an important part of the policy of every country in the world. and as recently as last year, there was an attempt to push through acta, which would have resulted in a violation of civil liberties laws. this year, we learned about another way to spy on people: the tempora and prism systems. these are two programs, the u.k. and the u.s. both countries had the same goal in mind: to take away a fundamental right, the right to freedom, not just personal freedom, but freedom of speech and private property. i think we cannot agree to that, and that is why the european union must put in place the appropriate procedures to ensure that freedom of expression, freedom of the individual and his right to privacy are not violated any further. as a member of the s&d group, i support the idea of suspending the ttip talks until the problem of wiretaps is resolved.
in writing. - the debate over the us digital communications monitoring system suggests that the americans accept this system, provided it is aimed directly at terrorists. what the american people don't realize is that this system is perfectly tailored to collect information about law-abiding and loyal citizens. people who are concerned about their online privacy are usually reassured when the argument is made that intelligence agencies can only read their electronic correspondence under special circumstances and with the permission of the relevant court. they assume they have nothing to fear as long as they're not terrorists or corresponding with the wrong people. however, this is in any case a violation of fundamental human rights, especially in the context of repeated reports of abuse of these capabilities. that's why i voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on improving the organisation of the 2014 european parliament elections. however, i have serious doubts about whether the european parliament's proposals will be implemented. in the past, a number of documents have been adopted setting out the demands of meps. unfortunately, in practice, member states have very rarely decided to implement them.
in writing. − i voted against this report. i disagree with moving many aspects of the european elections from member state level to european level. the content of ballot papers or the provisions for european party political election broadcasts need to be left to the national level. this ensures the elections follow an efficient and legitimate process. for example, portugal would have to make a change in their constitutional law if the names and logos of european political parties were to be included. this clearly demonstrates a problem within the report and i cannot support it.
in writing. − the electoral system is based on the principle of ensuring that large countries have the same number of meps and that all the main political parties in smaller countries are represented. members serve for five years and sit in parliament not by nationality but by political group. there is no single electoral system for the european parliament, each country has its own rules for counting votes, but it is assumed that elections are held on the same date everywhere. initially, the european parliament was a consultative body with no real power. today, parliament establishes most of the european laws that have a direct impact on the lives of citizens of the eu countries. elections to the european parliament take place in all countries at the same time in june and last four days, from thursday to sunday. this procedure is designed to prevent the results of voting in one member state from influencing the results in another member state. every citizen of a member state of the union residing in another member state shall be entitled to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections in that state. that is why i think that the organisation of elections is a very important process and i did not support this report.
mr. chairman, please! services account for a third of european exports and half of foreign direct investment. the regulation of the rules governing their international exchange, in particular with countries closely linked to the european union, should further facilitate the foreign activities of domestic enterprises. however, trade in services, although a cornerstone of the economy, has received little attention in international relations. even asean countries are still not participating in these negotiations, which is certainly not a good situation. the region's growing economic potential is not unknown to key sectors of eu business. however, east asian markets are still under-exploited by european countries. as regards the group of countries to be covered by the agreement, broad support should be provided to the pursuit of union interests in the areas of telecommunications, financial services, transport, online trade and other key issues for the community economy.
in writing. − for example, knowing that services account for almost three quarters of eu gdp and employment and are essential to maintaining and enhancing eu competitiveness, and that they accounted for 28% of eu exports and more than half of its foreign direct investment in third countries in 2011, amid the continuing and looming specter of a further crisis, i did not decide to support this resolution.
in writing. −the unjustified and uncoordinated increases in customs duties imposed by norway on lamb, beef, certain cheeses and hydrangeas are unacceptable. we all agreed that the free market was the basis for economic growth and jobs. you can't just ignore a mutually agreed-upon arrangement without giving notice. i agree with the rapporteur that the commission should initiate the procedures to clarify this situation as soon as possible. a response is needed that leaves no doubt that such actions are contrary to modern rules for the implementation of bilateral agreements.
in writing. − the excessively high duties set by the norwegian government are contrary to the agreement between the eu and norway. due to the outrageous duties, an unbalanced trade occurs between both sides and negotiations with norway need to be initiated. i support the strategy suggested by this report and agree that action has to be taken if norway fails to comply. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − there is no economic rationale, nor do economic growth, employment or inflation rate signal any negative impact of the global economic and financial crisis on the norwegian economy. moreover, the norwegian government proposed these measures without having consulted the eu partners beforehand, which would be appropriate given the close bilateral relations between the eu and norway. i regret the protectionist and trade-restrictive behaviour of the norwegian government, which is why i supported this resolution.
in writing. − completing the digital single market is essential for the development of entrepreneurship. european companies operating across borders have to deal with 27 legal systems, which generates high costs and is a burdensome barrier, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. it should be noted that smes have generated as much as 85% of new jobs in recent years, making their importance to the european economy fundamental. the digital single market offers an opportunity to reduce red tape, to internationalise smes and to improve the legal environment in which they operate. that's why i voted for the resolution. the completed digital market is also an opportunity for new companies to enter the market. the potential is therefore huge, as not only will there be an opportunity to create a vibrant internet economy, but also companies operating in other sectors will benefit, thanks to the removal of administrative barriers. the digital single market must become a reality, and this requires a number of new initiatives, as called for in today's resolution. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the services directive should also be implemented consistently, thereby facilitating the development of the single market for digital services. the benefits of a functioning digital single market are multifaceted, not only for smes but also for the economy and consumers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. i am pleased to see the statistics and data that were presented in the report. it signifies credibility and successfully forecasts the benefits that will emerge out of this initiative. i support the specific actions proposed for the implementation of the digital single market. improved delivery services, investment in fixed and mobile networks, roaming, etc., are all components that are necessary for this market’s success. they provide a solution to the challenges that come with the market’s creation and are of great benefit to european consumers.
in writing. - the report by jean lambert deals with the very serious issue of the reduction or exclusion of the most vulnerable from care. the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) expressed concern about the impact of budget cuts on the social and health care sector. the crisis has led to a deepening of poverty and unequal access to state aid. the rapporteur emphasises the role of preventive measures that bring many measurable benefits and eliminate risks in the long term. in view of the situation, the empl committee requested that 20% of the esf be allocated to poverty reduction. the problem is to reduce the level of expenditure while increasing the need for care. not only is ongoing funding important, but also changes in legislation to simplify complicated procedures. restrictions on access to health care affect not only the poorest sections of society, but also part-time workers, the elderly and children. it is worth emphasising that preventive action has a positive impact not only on the budget but above all on the health and safety of citizens. i believe that the involvement of the eu institutions in cooperation with the member states is essential to ensure effective care and to prevent long-term problems.
in writing. − action to accelerate development should not limit initiatives for the benefit of society. it is the people who are most important, and among them the weakest and most defenseless, the most in need of help. it's not enough to put money in the budget, it has to go where it's needed most. an ageing population is an increasing number of older people, often ill and lonely. the economic crisis also generates more unemployed and homeless people. among the excluded are children whose parents are busy and neglectful. they can't all do it on their own, so we've created institutions to help them. helping means reaching out, encouraging, offering and informing, not waiting for them to come. the crisis increases poverty and reduces social spending by governments. the union should not allow its most vulnerable citizens to suffer. there's not enough funding for investment, research, new roads. measures to protect europe from long-term social problems must be taken now.
in writing. − i agree with the intentions of this report and believe that necessary actions have to be taken with the poverty targets contained within the europe 2020 strategy. however, i believe that this report calls for too much interference from the eu on the national level. the requirements that this reports sets in place should only be decided upon by national governments. i voted against this report.
in writing. - the continuous technological development requires appropriate legal adaptation, which is why the initiative of mep petry kammerevert is worthy of support. first of all, the media have a huge socio-political significance and fulfil many important functions, including explanatory, informative, entertainment and controlling. hybrid tv is a novelty on the market, allowing both linear programmes and internet access. it is important to ensure that content is searchable and accessible on a non-discriminatory basis. currently, the operator decides on the bid itself, which is a threat to the impartiality of the media. the adaptation of the directive to the changing situation is therefore necessary in order not to restrict the right of users to a diversity of opinions and the right to information. it is therefore necessary to create a uniform and open system of competition between service providers. it is true that priority is given to suppliers to whom member states entrust a public service mission. however, fair competition in the media market must be ensured. the audiovisual services directive should also cover hybrid portal operators. i also support the legal guarantee of the protection of personal data of users. the introduction of the proposed changes will allow hybrid tv users to enjoy a wide range of programmes without any safety concerns.
in writing. − we already know that hybrid tv can give more functionality than we get from traditional tv, and as the specifications evolve we will experience a whole new tv. the appropriate security of this form of supply and transmission of information should be taken into account. teletekst offered access to additional information, hbbtv offers it too, but in a modern, interactive version. that's why i'm in.
in writing. − draft amending budget (dab) no 1 for the year 2013 concerns incorporating into the 2013 budget the commitment and payment appropriations necessary to cover the expenditure related to croatia’s accession to the eu on 1 july 2013. to accommodate these changes into the current multiannual financial framework the commission has presented a proposal for the revision of the mff 2007-2013, as foreseen under point 29 of the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. based on the commission’s proposal, dab 1/2013 recommends an increase of eur 655.1 million in commitment appropriations, and additional payment appropriations on the sum of eur 374 million. these figures reflect the financial package agreed at the accession conference of 30 june 2011. while several setbacks concerning the council’s readiness to endorse dab 1/2013 have postponed the vote on this file in plenary, the result of the vote today sends a positive and welcoming message to the croatian people, who became earlier this week, eu’s 28th member state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft resolution on the commission's work programme for 2014 because i believe that it sets out the key areas of action well. improving the difficult labour market situation has been one of our top priorities for some time now and i agree with the resolution's authors that it should remain a priority in 2014. to make improvement possible, we need to get back on the path of economic growth, improve the competitiveness of the eu market and make it easier for businesses to create new jobs. therefore, effective budget management and the maximum use of available funds for appropriate investments should be key for the commission from the first year of the new financial perspective. cohesion policy is of particular importance here and it is therefore vital that the commission completes the preparation of the appropriate programming framework and well-structured operational programmes. the commission should also apply the flexibility principle negotiated by parliament as from 2014.
mr. chairman, please! the current situation in egypt is becoming more and more dramatic. people die every day. in the wake of the deepening chaos, the military took over. all of this has serious implications for egypt's declining economy. president morsi's policies have been met with public disapproval. the controversial decree system was marked by authoritarianism. but the overthrow of legitimate government by force is always a troubling solution. the restoration of social dialogue and the return to the path of democratic change now requires an intensification of diplomatic efforts by the international community. only a parliamentary representation that properly reflects the character of society can guarantee the continuation of reforms and the economic stability of the country. the independence of the judiciary is also an important issue. in the civil sphere, action is crucial to build an open society. in this field, ngos, including european ones, have a special role to play and we should consistently support them, since egypt remains an important trade and political partner of the community.
in writing. - yesterday's military coup and the overthrow of president mohamed morsi marks the return of the army to power and shows that democratic values are not yet rooted in egyptian society. we hope that the next elections will be held soon and that the new authorities will resolve the problems that have caused considerable concern in the international public opinion in recent months. let us not forget that in june this year, the cairo criminal court sentenced 43 egyptian and foreign ngo workers to several years in prison for allegedly illegal activities and also illegal obtaining funds from abroad. the laws governing the activities of ngos, dating back to president mubarak, have been used notoriously to restrict the functioning of these organizations under the pretext of fighting corruption and the need for increased security controls in the country. the egyptian authorities ordered the closure of five headquarters of major international organisations, including the confiscation of their assets (including the konrad adenauer foundation). these actions to intimidate international activists are of deep concern to us, as political organisations and foundations are an integral part of the process of democratization and the emergence of civil society in the country. we call on the future egyptian authorities to put an end to all forms of discrimination and repression against ngos and expect them to fulfil their commitments to build a democratic state.
in writing. - i would like to express my solidarity with the egyptian people at this critical moment for them, a period of transition which we hope will lead to democracy. i hope that the egyptian government will strive to ensure the security of all citizens, regardless of their political views and affiliation and religion, to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, to protect freedom of association and freedom of expression, and to respect and fulfil its international obligations. that's why i'm in favor of, also in favor of, keeping the international aid.
on behalf of the ecr group. we are not alone in this djibouti issue. the un position is clear. reporters without borders also raises the alarm about this country, and i would remind you that we awarded them the sakharov prize a few years ago. i think it's worth quoting the famous quote by alexis de tocqueville, who said that revolutions only happen when things start to get better in a country, because things have gotten better in djibouti. it is true that this election was a step forward, but there are still a number of things that raise concerns. that's what we're talking about, we're talking about violence against protesters, we're talking about violence against women. certainly these things should be pointed out, but it should also be noted that some positive changes have taken place. nevertheless, this resolution will serve to show the djiboutian authorities that we are very interested in the development of democracy in that country.
mr president, we can commend djibouti for its participation in the anti-piracy operation, for helping to station european union troops there, namely french, american and japanese troops, and for its participation in the stabilization of the horn of africa. we can praise some attempts to introduce democracy, but we must also make it clear that what happened after the elections - i am talking about the arrests, the persecution of the opposition, the persecution of journalists, the persecution of ngo activists, their leaders in particular - is something that absolutely deserves condemnation. the european union must speak out on this issue and we must appeal to the high representative to send a clear signal on behalf of the european union that we do not approve of this kind of practice and that we expect the president of djibouti in particular (because he has full power there) to restore democracy.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. mrs. sargentini focused primarily on criticizing the government, which is of course the right approach and the right note, because the government uses disproportionate measures to suppress its opposition. but the boko haram organisation mentioned by the member is also the factor that makes the situation in nigeria truly dramatic. this organization has been designated by the united states as the second most dangerous terrorist organization in the world, which is why this situation is so difficult to resolve. hence the decision on this resolution, hence, as i understand it, the decision to send representatives of the european parliament to nigeria in two weeks' time. i hope that they will be able to look at the situation and find the appropriate means to help nigerians solve this problem.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. nigeria is a country that, because of its size, economic potential and political importance, has an impact on a large part of africa. i believe that the role of regional leader is also a commitment. nigeria could set a good example for its neighbors. for various human rights reasons, it doesn't. some of the problems, such as the boko haram terrorist activities, are not directly under the control of the nigerian authorities, and the situation is so serious that in may the nigerian president declared a state of emergency in three states that are particularly vulnerable to boko haram activity. however, other problems, such as the very high rate of executions and the attempts to introduce legislation which discriminates against citizens on the grounds of their sexual orientation, could be greatly reduced or eliminated if the nigerian authorities were to heed the proposals contained in our resolution.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the conflict between catholics and muslims in northern nigeria has killed more than 3,600 civilians since 2009. more than 9,000 citizens have fled the country in fear for their lives. increasing attacks by the islamist group boko haram on churches, schools, banks and police stations have contributed to the deaths of several hundred more innocent civilians. security forces are responding strongly, but ineffectively. there needs to be a dialogue between the government and the islamists. in addition, the authorities must continue to implement economic and legal reforms guaranteeing the right to an independent trial for all detainees and a moratorium on the death penalty. on may 30, the nigerian parliament passed a law banning same-sex marriage, punishable by 14 years in prison. similar penalties are provided for members of non-governmental organisations working for the benefit of homosexuals. twelve northern states have sharia law that punishes homosexuals with death. in the context of the newly enacted law banning same-sex marriage, we remind nigeria of its obligations under the agreements with the union to respect universal human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the violent fighting by islamist militants poses a serious threat to the people of nigeria. boko haram has carried out a number of terrorist attacks on public institutions, churches, schools and farms, targeting civilians. unfortunately, many acts of violence are also committed by government-controlled military units. the result of internal conflicts is a disastrous economic situation for the country. since christians and those of other faiths are the main targets of fundamentalist attacks, we can speak of acts of religious violence that are especially reprehensible in today's world. ensuring the safety and security of the public must be the government's top priority. but he cannot seek to escalate the conflict through violent retaliation. i appeal to both sides to exercise restraint and to resolve the dispute peacefully, including respect for religious freedom. it is essential in the public interest to guarantee freedom of the media, the activities of civil society organisations and the freedom of communication. the situation of abandoned plantations requires urgent action. the danger of famine is that if farming is stopped, the country will be devastated.
mr. chairman, please! an estimated 56 people were sentenced to death in nigeria last year, with about 1,000 awaiting execution. i believe that all possible pressure should be put on the nigerian authorities to abolish the death penalty. in april 2013, clashes between the military and boko haram terrorists killed hundreds of civilians and destroyed the town of baga. many areas of the country are also cut off from humanitarian aid and no access to reporters and journalists. journalists and others who report on events in nigeria in a critical manner are threatened and even threatened with the death penalty. that is why i call for respect for the freedom of the press and the media, because they play a very important role not only in documenting the conflict but also in strengthening accountability for human rights violations.
mr. chairman, please! although poland has been a member of the european union since 2004, the victims of the volyn massacre have not been treated as ethnically motivated genocide until now. although other genocides, often in countries far from europe, have been raised in the european parliament on numerous occasions, this tragedy is still waiting to be commemorated. let us bow our heads in respect for the victims of volhynia in 1943-1944, when almost 100,000 innocent people were killed by ukrainian nationalists, whose only fault was that they were poles. they were killed at dawn, with axes and machetes. whole villages were burned alive, not even children or pregnant women were spared, everyone was murdered on sight. how long will modern europe keep silent about volhynia? you can forgive a lot, but you can't forget what the truth was, you can't not call genocide genocide. the european parliament should therefore adopt a resolution on the commemoration of the victims of the volhynia massacre in september this year.
mr. chairman, please! the recent escalation of violence in nigeria, which has been going on for almost two years, must be of deep concern. terrorist attacks, which most often target the christian minority, deserve the full condemnation of the international community. the situation is so dire that in some provinces christians are afraid to go out after dark or to participate in religious services. it is very sad that their situation in this african country can be seen in the wider context of the anti-christian campaign in other regions of the world. parliament therefore calls on the nigerian authorities to put an end to the violence immediately and to return to peaceful coexistence between the different religions. we also urge that efforts be stepped up to ensure the safety of all residents, regardless of their religion or ethnicity.
in writing. with today's resolution, the european parliament reiterates its deep concern at the escalation of violence in the federal republic of nigeria. this multi-religious country, which could be an example of inclusive and peaceful social dialogue, has been plagued by ethnic terrorist attacks for many years. the religious war waged by the islamist sect boko haram is taking a drastic turn, with clashes between religious groups claiming thousands of lives over the past decade. in addition, the government's violent response to the terror campaign by security forces is worsening the already dramatic situation in the country. many independent reports indicate that operations against boko haram are being conducted with little regard for the rule of law or human rights. many people are held in detention for long periods of time without charge or trial, without being informed of their family members or having access to a lawyer. the recent execution of four prisoners, breaking a seven-year moratorium on the death penalty, is deeply disturbing and deserves strong condemnation. we know that every injustice committed in the name of security causes an even greater escalation of terror. in this context, i believe that the nigerian government must take effective action to protect the people, but it must be done within the rule of law. the european parliament, on the other hand, has a duty to monitor and respond to cases of flagrant violations of international standards.
mr. chairman, please! and i, of course, wish you and all your colleagues a pleasant holiday. i'd like to say that i know it's a long-standing tradition that human rights debates are held on thursdays late in the afternoon, but i think these issues are so important that we should be discussing them and voting on them in a broader way. perhaps in the next parliament, its authorities could consider holding these votes in the normal voting round, and the debates perhaps before noon, so that we do not make decisions so important for human rights in different countries of the world in groups of 30 or 40 people.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, a big thank you and congratulations to both alexandra thein and her colleagues and counter-rapporteurs who have dealt with an extremely complex and difficult subject. on the one hand, we had to deal with the great desire and need to improve the situation of crossborder couples (as we know, there are more and more of them in the european union every year), and on the other hand, it was a question of not interfering with the rules of family law, which remain the responsibility of the member states. so we had two things to reconcile - seemingly - irreconcilable. the rapporteur and the co-rapporteurs, as well as the entire legal affairs committee, have worked with the european commission to produce a draft which i am convinced has met this difficult challenge. on the one hand, we make life easier for eu citizens who enter into crossborder relationships, and on the other hand we protect the member states by not changing the substantive provisions of family law, in particular as regards the maintenance of their own definitions of marriage. nor is it compulsory for the member states of the european union to recognise legal institutions which do not exist in their own country, for example in matters relating to partnerships. i am therefore glad that this compromise has been reached and i am confident that a similar wise compromise will be reached by the member states in the council and that this law will soon come into force.
mr. chairman, please! these two reports are proof that the law can, however, keep pace with the changes taking place in society. the number of marriages in europe is falling, and young people are increasingly choosing to live in informal relationships, and therefore the alternative is increasingly more commonly formalized partnerships. i am also glad that the european union and we in parliament are dealing with the legal situation of such couples and are trying to put in order the rules that bind these couples, because when entering into such partnerships young people should be clear about what the rules are. at the same time, i believe that european law can speed up the process of changing the law in the member states. there are no formalized partnerships in poland. i very much hope that european law will also accelerate changes in our national law, especially since 80% of poles support the legalization of heterosexual partnerships. the family model is changing, and so is its acceptance, and the law must keep up. so, on the one hand, to follow, and on the other hand, to force.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i absolutely agree with parliament that the increasing mobility of citizens in europe has persuaded us of the need to reinforce the legal certainty concerning these couples’ property, because the problems inherent in this will increase as more and more people become mobile. member states in council, which have to take a decision by unanimity, should therefore be reminded of the practical importance of the text, whose adoption and entry into force are eagerly awaited by thousands of european citizens. the european parliament, madam rapporteur, can count on my full support to advance quickly the negotiations on these two files in council in the coming months, and i hope that we can come to a conclusion as quickly as possible.
in writing. – there are approximately 16 million international couples (i.e. couples of different nationalities and/or living abroad) in the eu. in case of divorce, separation or death, these couples are likely to face legal difficulties and extra costs when dividing their property, due to uncertainties over which national laws apply to it. as european integration grows, so does the number of international couples in the eu. commission figures show that about 650 000 international couples apply for separation each year, and this equals 1.3 million people in legal uncertainty over their property. that is the problem we are addressing today, and i therefore strongly welcome the proposals made by the commission, backed by the committee on legal affairs. these proposals seek to give international couples a coherent set of rules that will determine which country’s court is responsible and which law will apply, on the basis of a hierarchy of objective connecting factors. it will also enable them to choose the applicable law for their property regime. equally importantly, it will facilitate the process for recognising and enforcing decisions and court settlements throughout the eu. we ought to ensure that life is made easier for international couples in the eu, and the proposals discussed are one important step in that direction.
in writing. i support the motions for resolutions on the property rights of couples in the european union and the rules proposed by parliament in the event of the dissolution of a marriage or a partnership for any reason. it is very important that the legal solutions we are proposing today meet the expectations of those people who, because of the break-up, want to regulate their legal situation and are facing very real problems. until now, there has been no common solution within the european union for partners or spouses from different countries to determine their financial situation during or after the marriage. the resolutions concern, among other things, such basic and necessary elements as the jurisdiction of the court, the recognition of documents drawn up in different countries and the choice of the law applicable to the determination of the property consequences of a relationship. all these issues are very important for transnational couples, so it's good that they are included in the resolution. i also hope that the adoption of the resolution by parliament will have an impact on those member states which have not yet introduced the regulation of partnerships into their legal systems and will mobilise them to regulate the issues of the recognition of partnerships.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we're looking at a very important piece of legislation. i would like to express my appreciation and congratulations to the rapporteur, to the committee for preparing the draft and to the legal affairs committee for the very interesting amendments. i would like to say a few words about these amendments. well, there's one amendment that i don't like, and that's the 11th amendment, which limits the right of counsel to control the conditions of detention to when there are signs of mistreatment of a detainee. the question is, where are these signals supposed to come from if the law of control is so limited? so let us stick to the text proposed by the libe committee. the amendments concerning children in detention, the extension and clarification of the rules on contact with such detainees by their guardians, their parents, are also very good. this is very important. particularly relevant here is the 13th amendment the rights of persons with disabilities, persons whose physical or mental condition indicates a disability. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. these individuals are often the easy prey of overzealous or abusive law enforcement. the rights and protection of such persons are therefore of the utmost importance. thank you for pointing out this problem. once again, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent draft directive.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on development. - mr president! - what are you doing? the development committee always seeks to take into account in its opinions the issues of coherence of the various sectoral policies of the european union with the key objectives of development cooperation. and that's what happened this time. the review of the renewable energy directive and the fuel quality directive should ensure, in the view of the committee on development, that firstly, the eu's biofuels policy does not undermine food security, but fully respects the human right to food, and secondly, does not deprive people in difficulty of their livelihoods by depriving them of land use rights or otherwise. we hope that the amendments in the development committee's opinion will help to resolve the food-fuel dilemma and the land-use rights issue. this is a growing problem and a coherent policy of the european union is therefore necessary.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. once again, we are witnessing a significant divergence of opinion within the environment and industry committee responsible for the subject of our debate. the main objective is to determine the level of the share of energy from renewable sources, including biofuels, in the transport sector by 2020. the eu's renewable energy directive, which set a target of 10% renewable energy less than four years ago, has been a catalyst for the development of the biofuel industry in europe. now, based on the highly controversial, questionable theory of iluc, or indirect land use change, the commission proposes to limit the share to 5%. if we accept this proposal, it will not only undermine the credibility of the european institutions once again, but it will also threaten to bring down an entire sector of the economy and, as a consequence, thousands of jobs. the production of biofuels has developed very rapidly in our polish environment, which has allowed the development of large agricultural areas and has contributed to the diversification of energy sources. farmers and entrepreneurs trusted the european union, invested heavily, and developed production capacity in accordance with the guidelines set out in the directives. we all want to compromise, but development and the need for change cannot mean the elimination of a certain achievement which is real and can be verified. you have to see the huge differences between the sugar cane in brazil, which is actually doing dramatic, tragic damage to very valuable forests, and the sugar beet in europe. it's a huge difference, and you have to look at it very carefully and examine it. the decisions we're going to make should be verifiable and non-controversial, based on agreed, shared, i stress, shared scientific research, and also free from controversy because of the very serious consequences. in europe, we do not have the phenomenon of indirect change of use. moreover, in recent years, the area of forest has increased, while the area of agricultural land has decreased. the biofuels sector cannot be held responsible for food prices either, given the negligible share of agricultural products used to produce it, e.g. around 3% of cereals in europe. to sum up, the current situation is very controversial. the european parliament has recently taken up the issue of withdrawing its previous positions on the limitation of co2 emissions permits. i am calling for a compromise, understood as not destroying what we have achieved today.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask mr turmes the following question: how many plants are currently producing second generation biofuels in the european union? second question: on what basis do you say that there was no investment in biofuels after 2009 when these directives were adopted? in my country, the main investments were made after the adoption of these directives. most of the investments were financed from savings, loans and european funds. this year, we're going to reach about 6.5%, maybe 6.7% of production. and that's 700,000 tons of high-protein feed. this feed eliminates the need to import genetically modified corn. i think that these elements also need to be considered. you can't say there was no investment after 2009. how are these people supposed to pay off their investment for four years?
we are now beyond the allocated time; we have very much extended the debate. i understand that the topic is very controversial. hot debates are very welcome during any parliamentary debate but this request from mr grzyb is the last request in the blue-card procedure. i will not give you any more. i am sorry.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask my colleague in the house if he thinks that if we introduce these changes to the european union regulations, palm oil producers in indonesia, for example, will close down their plantations? is that not our godly desire? if there are production and distribution channels, then somewhere this oil will find its place. we cannot use the demagogic statement that we are responsible for world hunger because we produce biofuels. i think that's an unwarranted claim.
let me inform you that we have registered 16 requests for catch-the-eye. we are unable to give the floor to all of you; the only number we can accept is eight. catch-the-eye procedure
i'm closing this debate, which is taking longer than we anticipated. the vote will take place on wednesday at 12 noon. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
on paper. the proposals of the envi and itre committees for changes to biofuel production are not satisfactory. limiting conventional bio-components to 5.5% or 6.5% will not solve the iluc problem, but will create problems in the european union. a compromise of 7% bio-components in transport fuels was acceptable, although for many meps it was a difficult decision. the amendments proposed to the plenary session effectively limit the share of conventional biofuels to 7,25% by introducing a 2% target for advanced biofuels and 0,75% which could be achieved by using advanced biofuels or renewable energy in electric transport or using hydrogen in transport. achieving a 2.5 per cent share of advanced biofuels by 2020 will be very difficult or even impossible for many countries. therefore, it should be borne in mind that adopting such radical restrictions in the version proposed by the envi or itre committees will be a dead letter in practice and we will all be in trouble. the assumed emission values resulting from the proposed iluc for individual agricultural raw materials based on uncertain data are also seriously questionable. both the discussion so far and the analyses presented by the european commission indicate that there are very large discrepancies in the assessment of emissions caused by iluc factors, which makes this mechanism extremely controversial and unclear.
in writing. decisions to develop the biofuels sector in the european union were intended to help reduce co2 emissions, ensure diversification of energy sources and help farmers by providing them with a steady source of income and the possibility of replacing imported high-protein feed. it has only been a few years since these ideas were put into practice, and none of these goals has yet been achieved. meanwhile, the european commission is proposing changes to the regulations that will hit not only biofuel producers, but farmers first and foremost. the reduction of the threshold for the use of conventional biofuels by half in order to meet the 10% target for the share of energy from renewable sources in transport by 2020 will require a change in the production process and a reduction in the expected production. the funds allocated by producers to reach a sufficient production ceiling have still not been repaid the investment period is still running. moreover, farmers of rapeseed and maize assumed that by 2020 they would be able to base their production on these crops and obtain stable, regular incomes from them. the commission proposal needs to be substantially amended to minimise the impact of such a major policy change in this sector, both for producers and farmers. this can be achieved by, inter alia, introducing provisions guaranteeing continued support for the production of first-generation biofuels until 2020 and establishing appropriate transitional periods.
in writing. the main thrust of the original biofuels regulation was to achieve synergies between two objectives: protecting the environment by using biomass for energy production and promoting innovation and entrepreneurship. while the commission's proposed changes can be considered a legitimate update of eu policies, the envi report leads to an almost complete abandonment of the second objective in favour of the first. first, europe remains a high food security area and the use of some plant material for the production of first generation biofuels remains appropriate. this is all the more so as the waste generated in the production of such biofuels can then be successfully used as a valuable native component of protein feed. secondly, farmers and businesses have already invested heavily in crops and biofuel infrastructure, so any far-reaching change in eu policy priorities threatens to derail their efforts and undermine the reputation of european law in the eyes of citizens. thirdly, i believe that it is entirely appropriate to set intermediate targets to promote the production of second and third generation biofuels from non-consumable materials. this solution not only helps to exploit europe's ecosystem potential in this area, but also primarily drives innovation and entrepreneurship, especially in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. and that is what europe needs today.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by mr buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the completion of the internal energy market (com (2012) 0663 - 2013/2005 (ini)) (a7-0262/2013) and the question for oral answer by mrs sartori, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on micro-generation (o-000074/2013) (b7-0217/2013).
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would like to congratulate commissioner oettinger and the european commission on the preparation of the communication, which we support in its entirety by a majority vote in the european parliament. i think this debate will not be as stormy and as heated as the biofuel debate because of this huge support. the counter-rapporteurs have worked very hard and i wanted to thank them for their excellent cooperation. the itre commission and the opinion committees have also been very helpful in providing comments and appropriate corrections. because the case is important, too. if we want to get out of the crisis, we have to be competitive, and the competitiveness of the economy depends very much on energy prices. the common market offers opportunities for producers and suppliers of energy to compete and thus to lower prices. at the same time, we must remember that our citizens are waiting for the opportunity to reduce energy prices. finally, this common market also allows us to maintain a stronger position in energy price negotiations with external suppliers. the second issue which is very important in the context of the common market is security of supply. the security of supply is obviously much higher when we can help each other in such a market. the report also stresses that member states will use all the energy sources available on their territory, such as hard coal and brown coal, which are present almost everywhere in europe, using the latest low-carbon technologies. we must do this and we must support the development of technology in the european union. finally, the third benefit is the more optimal use of renewable energy, as well as the implementation of all regulations on energy saving, energy efficiency. what is needed to create this common market? there are five points to consider: first, there must be connections between the countries of the european union (gas pipelines, electricity lines, etc.). member states have committed themselves to do so by 2015. the connecting europe facility provides another opportunity to strengthen this action. uniform network codes should be introduced, including common markets, for retail sales and, in particular, for wholesale sales. this is up to the european agency and the national regulatory authorities. we need to gradually harmonise the ways in which renewable energy is supported and the scope of support for renewable energy if we are to trade renewable energy in the common market. finally, and perhaps the fourth point is the most important, it must be clear to our consumers. they need to be able to choose a manufacturer, an energy supplier, they need to understand the bills. we need to bring the ict sector into this, so that it's just readable to the audience. and of course, as a fifth point, we need to implement eu legislation as soon as possible, especially the third energy package and energy efficiency solutions. without this, there is no possibility of creating a common market and of making it effective. finally, i would like to remind you that since may 2010 we have been implementing the idea that i put forward with jacques delors, which is called the 'european energy community'. it is also thanks to the efforts of the commissioner and the commission, and thanks to the support of the european parliament, that we are in fact on the verge of creating just such a community in the european union. i think the citizens are waiting for some kind of energy supply, possibly cheap energy. the economy is waiting for that, too.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. this is a report which certainly sends some very positive signals, also because of the amendments, the contribution that the conservative group has made to this report. i'd like to draw your attention to a few things. firstly - and this has been mentioned before - we really expect pressure from national and european regulators to eliminate the price mechanisms in the gas market that artificially link the price of gas to the price of oil. this indexation, these price mechanisms are now favouring the giants who simply don't want a customer market in the gas sector. secondly, we want the rules of the third energy package to be applied strictly, particularly to foreign investors. there can be no room for hesitation here. we would also like to see the derogations from the third package which the commission has authorised some investors to apply, critically reviewed after a few years of application. the serious flaw in this report is certainly that we are silent about the role of unconventional gas. this is the biggest factor in changing the energy market and our silence on this subject is making us, parliament, look ridiculous. we as conservatives are totally opposed to the idea of taxing energy consumption in article 27. the next charge from consumers is the worst possible signal we can send to consumers and industry. they are already paying enough for europe's experimentation in energy policy.
rapporteur. − mr president, let me say a few remarks at the end of our discussion. first of all, we do not need new legislation; we should implement the existing legislation. i can only support what my colleague mr turmes said: that we also should work in our own member states. that is absolutely necessary. mr rohde mentioned national capacity mechanisms and remuneration. i agree with him completely that there could be dangers, from some points of view, in the creation of an internal energy market. regarding the indexation of gas prices; of course this should absolutely be stopped, but that is not easy to do. i agree with the commissioner on this issue. perhaps in some cases we could renegotiate our long-term contracts, but not in contradiction with existing law. regarding the free trade agreement with the united states, this is possible only if we can achieve competitive and affordable energy prices. otherwise we will not have much chance. i also agree very much with the commissioner about price regulation on our continent. this should be stopped but of course step by step, so as to take into account vulnerable energy consumers. we could also check our energy market in central europe, in the scandinavian countries and in regional markets. this does work, so let us move things forward. before the european elections next year we can implement much of the legislation mentioned in my report. lastly, i would like to declare my full support for the european commission, and for commissioner oettinger, in the implementation all the rules in the internal energy market.
in writing. is the launching of the energy market in the union for the purpose of harmonising prices and increasing competitiveness, or is it solely for the purpose of ensuring energy security for the citizens of the member states? the creation of a proper european energy market, not just for citizens but also for industry, is a matter for the future, especially as the eu's energy policy is heavily influenced by post-industrial fiction and climate doctrine. i think that the current and fundamental objective of this policy should be to create interconnections between the individual national energy systems, that is, to build energy security for citizens. the question that needs to be answered is whether energy policy in the common market makes sense in isolation from industrial policy and, consequently, whether the current economic misery of the union could not be overcome by a better customs policy for energy fuels. the root cause of mass unemployment in the union and destructive industrial relocation is linked to the wto-imposed free trade principle, which in practice promotes unfair competition and social and environmental dumping, and this also affects the shape of the energy sector. i note that the main objective of the internal energy market - i.e. energy security for my country, poland, but also for several other member states - requires support for coal mining and coal-fired power. in launching the internal energy market, we must not only be concerned with security but also with the re-establishment of the competitiveness of our part of europe on the global market.
in writing. - i thank president buzko for his very good report and congratulate him on the support of all the political groups. the european commission has calculated that since 2005, energy prices in the european union have increased by 37%, while in the us they have fallen by 5% in the same period. this not only has a negative impact on consumers, but also makes it harder for european companies to compete on the world market. completing the energy common market and implementing the third energy package is needed to ensure security of supply, to better negotiate with external partners, and to bring down prices and make more efficient use of environmentally friendly energy sources. the report by president buzek stresses the need to develop own resources and to exploit the full potential of unconventional energy sources, which will help protect our consumers and businesses and increase competitiveness on the global market.
in writing. the european commission has reviewed the actions already taken and those needed in the near future to achieve the european council's objective of completing the internal energy market by 2014 and eliminating energy islands by 2015 by developing the necessary energy infrastructure in the eu. the report by jerzy buzek continues the path towards ensuring the supply of energy from local sources. the key to the creation of a common market is to focus on cross-border interconnections, the need to modernise and develop energy infrastructure between member states and national energy networks, the consistent application of the internal energy market rules, including the third energy package, to eu and third-country operators operating on the eu market, and the inclusion in future actions of the solution to the problem of disruption of electricity networks caused by unplanned flows of energy from renewable sources. the strong support expressed at the eu summit on 22 may, where member states confirmed their readiness to create a common energy market by the end of 2014, leaves us with a lot of work to do in terms of implementing previously adopted rules and arrangements, but also new investments.
in writing. i thank the rapporteur for his report on the crucial issue of the completion of the internal energy market. i am glad that we are supporting activities which do not go against the trend of using only renewable energy sources. we are thinking of the interests of individual member states, which could decide for themselves how to produce and process energy and use their own energy resources, such as natural resources, to increase the eu's competitiveness on the world market. support for the metal and mining industries is also an important issue. i support projects that are also crucial for poland, and do not exclude energy produced from coal. therefore, the individual rather than the uniform and unified approach to the diverse national realities presented in the report is satisfactory. this report also touched on the important issue of consumer protection, welfare and promotion. competitive supply and lower energy costs, taking into account the decline in wholesale energy prices, are key issues. the consumer has the right to information and choice. it is therefore important to take account of the regulation of energy prices on the market.
mr. chairman, please! equal pay for women and men is a fiction. women on average earn less than men because they work in lower-paid sectors of the economy, but they also earn less in the same jobs, and the higher the position, the greater the disparity. this is often hidden by a differentiation of designations that allows men to be paid more: a woman is a cleaner and a man is a specialist in maintaining order. lower wages mean lower living standards, especially in old age. 21% of women over 65 are at risk of poverty, compared with 16% of men. the elimination of the gender pay gap is a component and a factor of equal opportunities. we call on the commission to take decisive action, as the current directive is ineffective. europeans want to close the pay gap effectively, so it is crucial that parliament's recommendations are implemented. of course, improving existing legislation will not solve anything. there is a need for a broad education of the public, especially employers.
mr. chairman, please! the german press reported on the horrific scenes of the removal of four children from their parents in darmstadt. a few months earlier, in berlin, 15 german policemen had snatched a polish mother's six-week-old son from her arms. similar dramatic events are occurring more and more frequently in various european countries. the cruel practice of taking children away from their families is becoming more and more common. i strongly object to such cruelty. the trauma of a child being forcibly snatched from his parents' arms remains for life. the cruel practice of taking children away from their frightened mothers is recorded in the memories of victims of nazi german concentration camps during the war. let the modern european states not follow in their footsteps. only the violence of both parents justifies the taking of children. in other cases, the state should help the family, not destroy it.
mr. chairman, please! on 4 september 2013, the 50th anniversary of the death of robert schuman, a distinguished french politician who is now rightly regarded as one of the founding fathers of a united europe, was marked. he based his political thought on christian values, which led to the creation of the european community institutions. the implementation of his project was the embodiment of the aspirations of millions of europeans who dreamed of a europe that was safe, free and united. these principles were set out and put into practice by robert schuman in a difficult period for europe after the end of the greatest war in history, which cost the lives of many millions of people. it was a europe that was very divided, both politically and economically. today, 50 years after the death of this great visionary and democrat, many european nations are implementing and deepening his principles. also those countries which, because of geopolitical divisions, found themselves on the other side of the iron curtain after the second world war.
in writing. - the report we debate tonight assesses the current results of cohesion policy measures targeted at energy efficiency. energy efficiency is an increasingly important part of the cohesion policy, especially in the forthcoming programming period. however, in the current period, the effectiveness of energy efficiency projects under cohesion policy has been minimum and we should consider how to avoid such failure in the future. so much needs to be done in order to improve absorption rates and the subsequent implementation of funded projects. this is especially true as these projects are crucial for households and local communities. i welcome many of the report’s recommendations on how to solve these problems in the upcoming programming period. these recommendations will hopefully bring some clarity to how improve the compatibility of intertwined european, national and regional cohesion policy objectives with the energy efficiency goal. i am grateful to the rapporteur for her support to my position in this respect, and i hope this political cooperation between our two political groups will continue in future activities of our committee.
mr. chairman, please! for the first time in history, we are tackling the issue of mortgage regulation at european level. mortgage lending, as has been rightly said, is a very specific type of financial service of high social importance, due to its size and liabilities and its duration, and there is no doubt that the lack of regulation in this area is a kind of neglect at european level. the objective of this directive is to create a responsible, efficient, effective and competitive european mortgage credit market. the financial crisis has shown how damaging irresponsible credit policies can be for a large part of our societies. the directive on credit agreements relating to residential immovable property imposes obligations and more stringent requirements not only on creditors and credit intermediaries but also on borrowers themselves. first of all, it sets new standards for the reliability, accuracy and transparency of information. the solution developed by the econ committee is particularly noteworthy, as is the guarantee to the consumer of an adequate reflection period, i.e. the right to withdraw from the credit agreement within 7 days, and the prohibition of tying, as well as the right to early repayment, which seems to be particularly important. i also find the new solution - which i also sought in my amendments - in the area of foreign exchange loans, which will make it easier for people to earn in a currency other than the currency of the country in which they live, to be useful. a loan in the currency in which remuneration is received shall not be treated as a foreign currency loan. therefore, they will not be subject to stricter creditworthiness requirements in such a situation. this is a great advantage for the growing number of citizens, including my own, who live in border areas and earn in euro. it is also a real boost to the single market, as it will encourage the mobility of workers and at the same time facilitate transactions in euro, including in countries with a temporary derogation on the euro. i congratulate the rapporteur and all the co-rapporteurs on the smooth and efficient way in which this document was put to the vote. the mechanisms in the directive to combat abuses and unfair incentives will hopefully make us more effective in preventing housing market crises.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on tuesday 10 september 2013 at 12.00 noon. written declarations (rule 149)
the next item is the report by agustín díaz de mera garcía consuegra, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (com (2011) 0290 - c7-0135/2011 - 2011/0138 (cod)) (a7-0139/2013)
madam president! the debate we are now concluding shows how difficult the compromise proposed by our rapporteur, mr díaz de mera, is. however, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this compromise, although like any compromise, it is not entirely satisfactory to all parties. but i think it's worth supporting. why would you do that? because there is no doubt - and this has been discussed in our debate - that for many, many citizens of the european union, one of the greatest achievements of integration is the free movement of people. this unique agreement that created the schengen area is a value that we should strengthen but at the same time protect. to protect effectively against abuse so that our citizens do not lose faith in the meaning of its existence. how can we protect it effectively? first of all, when we are dealing with abuse, especially by third-country nationals, of the possibility of entering the union without a visa and then making unjustified use of the possibility of seeking asylum, it is clear that the possibility of a response should be ensured. not in the interests of bureaucrats and eu officials, but in the interests of the citizens of the european union. i am aware that this regulation, these amendments, place a great responsibility on the european commission, but i also believe that the european commission is capable of meeting this task, this responsibility. she's proven time and time again that she's very responsible in these matters. at the same time, i believe that if we introduce a visa suspension mechanism for citizens of countries that abuse the possibility of free entry, visa-free movement with the european union, we should be all the more open to concluding such visa-free agreements with the eastern partnership countries. these are the nations that are waiting for this political gesture, and thanks to the mechanism that we may adopt, we should be more generous in offering them visa-free entry into the european union, because that is our responsibility and our task, especially in the face of the pressure that their eastern neighbour is putting on these nations.
madam president! freedom of movement within the european union is indeed a great value. this is not only the case for eu citizens, but also for third-country nationals. however, there is not always reciprocity in this respect and citizens of some member states to which third-country nationals may travel cannot enter those countries without a visa. this is a discriminatory situation and it is good that the report shows an attempt to take some action to change this situation, an attempt to put legal and political pressure on third countries to lift this visa requirement. i see that the european union is moving in the right direction, and i therefore support the report and congratulate the rapporteur.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the amendment of council regulation (ec) no 850/98 concerning the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms. this report relates to existing powers over technical conservation rules for fisheries resources, such as: measuring nets and engine power, mesh netting and twine thickness, construction of netting material, attachments which may obstruct or diminish mesh openings in nets, means of reporting on beam trawls, and emergency measures for conservation of marine resources. the commission has maintained that its proposal does not alter the technical measures in any way, but merely lays down which procedure should be followed in amending or updating it.
in writing. - i chose to abstain from the vote on matrimonial property regimes. in partnerships involving individuals from different member states, disputes may occur when the union dissolves and there is property to be divided. while it is true that problems arise when courts of two or more jurisdictions may be seized when determining the legal division of matrimonial property following the dissolution of the partnership, changes to domestic family law is a sensitive issue, and not all implications were addressed.
in writing. - the matrimonial property regime is a legally regulated system of legal relations between spouses, which regulates property relations not only between them but also between other entities. the law lists three basic types of property: legal, contractual and compulsory. when you get married, you basically have three separate assets. this includes the personal assets of each spouse and the joint assets comprising the earnings of both spouses. these are very important issues that directly govern the fortunes of most of us. i think that this subject still needs to be worked on, and that is why i abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on supporting a european transport technology strategy for future sustainable mobility in europe. the document provides for the development of an innovative transport strategy common to all eu regions. it shall take into account the regional characteristics of the particular areas, including those with a specific terrain structure, such as mountain and island areas, where appropriate transport infrastructure solutions are to be implemented. the rapporteur draws particular attention to the need for the european union to carry out and support scientific research in the field of transport mobility. i believe that investing in research will help to improve road safety, to find more environmentally friendly solutions and to reduce road noise in the near future. i therefore hope that a common transport technology strategy will be developed which will bring tangible benefits in terms of more efficient transport of goods and people. in addition, the creation of new transport networks would have a positive impact on the promotion of interregional and cross-border connections.
in writing. – a european transport-technology strategy should promote quality of service, the convenience of passengers and businesses, and sustainable mobility, and should be based on the union’s targets and legislation regarding the reduction of energy consumption, traffic noise, air pollutants, raw materials and greenhouse gas emissions, as well as improving health and quality of life, increasingly customised solutions and enhancing safety and security. the importance of optimising transport flows and logistic chains is underlined in the report, as well as the need to encourage end-user behaviour change when it comes to the use of public transport and the importance of research and innovation (r&i). i voted for this innovation, and the ecr group as a whole supports the wide range of elements of the report, including importance of r&i, support to innovations and smes, and new technologies focused on multimodality, passenger comfort and real-time information.
in writing. - mr. president, i'm not going to let you do this. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that all initiatives whose basic aim is to promote the innovation of the european economy should be supported. as a member of the transport committee, i am even more aware of the need to develop all technologies that support the increase in transport operations and related logistics. the development of citizens' mobility and alternative means of transport is certainly playing a significant role in the increasingly populated areas of the union and in the growth of the movement of people and goods across europe.
in writing. transport is fundamental to our economy and society. similarly, mobility is vital for the internal market and for the quality of life of citizens who can travel freely. transport is a source of economic growth and job creation. we therefore need to ensure its sustainable development, and because it is global, effective action requires close international cooperation. the future prosperity of our continent will depend to a large extent on the ability of all regions to integrate fully into the world economy, and efficient transport is a prerequisite for this. i therefore believe that the transport systems of eastern and western europe should be harmonised as soon as possible so that they can fully reflect the transport needs of almost the entire continent and its 500 million citizens.
in writing. – i voted for the protection of three basic rights of accused persons: access to information concerning the charges, the right to interpretation and translation, and the right to acquire a lawyer. it is important for all individuals involved in the justice system to fully be able to exercise their rights at citizens, and therefore it is imperative that the accused is fully able to have recourse to the services of a lawyer. this motion also covers communication with relatives, employers and consular authorities, as well as special safeguards for suspected or accused persons who are vulnerable.
in writing. – i have lent my support to the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the right of access to a lawyer in criminal proceedings and on the right to communicate upon arrest (com(2011)0326 – c7-0157/2011 – 2011/0154(cod)). this directive would, among other things, lay down the main principle that every suspect or accused person should be given the right of access to a lawyer as soon as possible and in a manner that allows them to exercise their defense rights effectively. it also specifies that in any event these rights should be granted before the start of any questioning, upon carrying out any procedural or evidence gathering act and in case of deprivation of liberty. the proposal further identifies the content of the right, stresses that meetings between the suspect or accused person and the lawyer should be confidential, lists the derogations allowed to the general principles and provides for rules in case of waiver of the right to a lawyer. all persons should have the right to a fair trial when accused of a crime and that begins with legal assistance therefore this directive is paramount to uphold the democratic and free society that this union has rendered.
in writing. - since 2010, the european union has been implementing the stockholm programme, which aims to strengthen the rights of individuals in criminal proceedings. two directives have been adopted on this subject so far, and now it is time for another regulation. the european commission presented a draft reference to the ects standards at the end of last year. however, after the draft was submitted to the eu council, it was amended to undermine the purpose of adopting the directive. the eu council, representing the interests of the member states, has modified the draft in a way that does not so much improve the standards as significantly deteriorate them compared to what the court in strasbourg has been asking the states to do for years. this is a serious matter, for it affects tens of millions of people who are often unrepresented in criminal trials. that's why i voted to restore faith in human rights standards.
in writing. - irresponsible large-scale lending was one of the main causes of the global economic crisis. mortgage lending also plays an important role in the european union, as it accounts for a large proportion of the union's gdp. mortgage credit agreements are regulated separately by each member state, which means that there are many barriers to competition in european mortgage credit markets. however, the difficulties in granting cross-border credit due to fragmentation should be minimised. the new directive on credit agreements relating to residential immovable property aims to facilitate cross-border credit, protect consumers and prevent irresponsible lending. i voted for the report because consumer protection is a key issue in this area and should be of the highest standard. a union-wide mortgage market would contribute to better consumer protection and the functioning of the internal market. remember that buying a house or apartment is an investment for many consumers, and therefore requires special protection, and comprehensive risk information is of the utmost importance. however, mortgage credit agreements should also take into account the individual situation of the consumer, and here too, a certain flexibility in terms of repayment of the loan is important.
in writing. – i chose to abstain from the vote concerning credit agreements relating to residential property. this proposal for a directive aims to introduce better safeguards for consumers taking out mortgages through a combination of better information on the costs and risks involved and increased supervision of mortgage lenders in the hope that mortgage crisis situations could be avoided. however, my main concerns surround the safeguarding of the right to issue non-commercial mortgages for buy-to-let investors and the right to offer tying and bundling products to home buyers.
in writing. the european commission is preparing a directive to provide greater protection for mortgage borrowers by providing bank customers with full information on the terms of their contracts. the directive requires banks to assess the actual creditworthiness of consumers, taking into account their personal circumstances, and, if the results are negative, to refuse credit. the lender will also have to warn customers of the consequences of non-compliance with contractual obligations. the project introduces standards for marketing and advertising information. this will prevent customers from being misled about the true cost of the loan and will make it easier for them to compare different offers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs arlene mccarthy on the use of inside information and market manipulation (market abuse). the document introduces a pioneering approach to european law, including the introduction of minimum penalties not only for companies but also for individuals. in addition, it strengthens administrative sanctions, fights the use of illicit financial instruments and improves the rules on the listing of companies' shares. it also focuses on better protecting whistleblowers. in my view, the proposal you have put forward is an opportunity to regain the confidence of investors and citizens after the numerous scandals that have come to light since 2008. i would also like to point out that it is an opportunity to increase players' confidence in the benchmarks. i believe that the report by mrs arlene mccarthy will start a long-term process which will allow the establishment of effective common market surveillance and the fight against the exploitation of confidential data.
in writing. – i voted in favor of the amendment of the council regulation (ec) no 2187/2005 for the conservation of fishery through technical measures in the baltic sea, the belts and the sound. the adoption of the new regulation of the parliament and of the council on the common fisheries policy will have a direct impact on the use of technical measures in the baltic sea, the belts and the sound, and it will make significant, necessary changes. this amendment is introducing a provision concerning the need for the commission to propose a new draft regulation on this subject.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report by mr gróbarczyk on the regulation on fishing resources and the application of technical measures in the baltic sea and the belts and the sund straits, as i think it is appropriate to postpone the debate until the european commission has reviewed the matter. the basic act on the common european fisheries policy needs to be supplemented in order to take final decisions on discards of small fish and fishing gear in the baltic sea and the belts and the sund. this will avoid the danger that the new regulations on the specifications of fishing gear will be incompatible with the provisions of the basic regulation. i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary for the european commission to submit a proposal for a new regulation after the adoption of the basic regulation published in the official journal of the european union, in order to avoid any contradictions.
mr. chairman, please! a well-functioning internal energy market can be a win-win for consumers and industry. it covers the development of trans-european energy networks, with a view to removing barriers and implementing smart infrastructure. its completion by the agreed, rather ambitious, deadline seems unlikely. it is important that such a mechanism works effectively, contributing to energy competitiveness and enhancing the potential of the community as a whole. the rules on the internal energy market should further strengthen the union's position vis-à-vis third countries, in particular with regard to powerhouses such as russia. the exploitation of the raw material deposits of certain member states is also of vital importance for the european energy market. this can have a significant impact on competitiveness and, very importantly, on lower prices for end-users. it is also important to leave the member states' governments free to use capacity compensation mechanisms.
mr. chairman, please! i am pleased that the report by mr buzek on the completion of the internal energy market has been adopted by parliament. this decision will not only contribute to improving europe's economic stability, but will also bring many benefits to consumers. as the report rightly points out, the completion of the internal energy market is essential not only for the union's global competitiveness, growth and job creation, but also for europe's overall energy security. the report also highlights the importance of regional energy projects. the situation with regard to the opol investment is therefore surprising. the modernisation and construction of the units at opole power plant are primarily aimed at preventing a power shortage which could even lead to power cuts in two or three years' time. the construction of new units of opole power plant is therefore necessary to ensure safety and stability on the european market. our job is to support it, not block it. the adoption of today's report underlines the importance of energy investments within the union and their importance for the energy security of the member states.
in writing. - i support the report by mr buzek on the completion of the internal energy market. the creation of a common energy market will be based largely on the rational exploitation of energy resources, which will enable consumers to pay less for energy and make the european union's economy more competitive. the market should be more transparent and any obstacles to competitiveness should be removed so that consumers can play a greater role in its creation. as the energy market is constantly changing, the european union must engage in new technologies such as smart grids, energy storage and clean coal technologies. i believe that the creation of an internal energy market would have a positive impact on the quality of life of the citizens of the european union and would provide better conditions for both producers and final consumers of energy, and that new energy technologies would contribute to improving the environment.
in writing. − the launch of the internal energy market is a step both towards europe's energy security and towards the integration of the continent. the current lack of systemic regulation causes problems with competition in the market, often resulting in excessively high prices or poor quality of services. so the decoupling of gas and oil prices is a success because these are the mechanisms used by the big companies that monopolize the market and avoid a flexible market. i hope that this report will attract investment that will make it possible to achieve its objectives. this is also important from an economic point of view, because cheaper energy is an opportunity to generate economic growth and new jobs. a good sign is the concern for consumers and their commitment to local alternative energy sources.
in writing. − i voted for and support mr buzekʼs report. if you take an energy map of europe and look at it in detail, you will see an interesting fact. for energy at least, the berlin wall did not fall in 1989. here east and west europe still exist: west europe with dense energy networks, east europe where all major pipelines go one way. it is a union where the west has a large number of gas suppliers while 12 member states have only one significant supplier. mr buzekʼs report is clear: only the completion of the internal energy market can truly unite europe. a fully connected europe, based on solidarity, is vital not only to our economy, but also to our energy security and social welfare. for this to work, we need infrastructure and political will. for infrastructure: we now have the cef and the ten-e. we have the plans. now is the time to build. to build a single physical european energy infrastructure that will remove the barriers left by a divided history. for political will: we need a new european energy community as the report says. we need a new spirit of cooperation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which i consider important because of the impetus it gives to the internal energy market, a crucial instrument for meeting the challenges of an increasingly expanding market which has until now been dominated by certain non-european competitors. it is important to harness the leverage of renewable energy, and to make the internal energy market effective by 2014, as planned. the prospect of approaching this market sector with a european and therefore common approach should encourage the commission and the council to accelerate this process and to continue the progress already made in this direction.
in writing. - energy and transmission networks, including cross-border ones, are one of the keys to economic success. the rapporteur drew attention to the fact that the launch of the internal energy market would bring many benefits, including, in particular, increased security of energy supply, lower energy costs for consumers and industry, and help to build a more sustainable economy. the report devotes a great deal of attention to renewable energy sources and energy efficiency. these issues are important not only from the point of view of environmental protection but also from the point of view of the need for diversification of energy sources and the aforementioned security of energy supply. what 's the matter ? however, it should be borne in mind that consumers should be at the centre of energy policy and that the most vulnerable should be protected so that they can all have access to the energy they need to function normally.
mr. chairman, please! the original draft of this report went far beyond regional policy to address climate change objectives. these controversial claims have now been ruled out, but the report still refers to questionable solutions, such as the commission's proposals and targets on cost-effectiveness. the significant and constantly growing demand for energy in the european union requires precise measures to be taken to efficiently manage its own energy resources. their use can directly contribute to increased competitiveness and growth, which translates into employment and the material situation of households. the commission is proposing to increase the cohesion policy allocation for climate issues. this is certainly important, but equally important are investments, also at regional level, in the exploitation of existing energy sources such as shale gas. i look forward to your specific and pro-development proposals in this area.
in writing. – i voted for the establishment of a new eu strategy on fisheries and aquaculture in the adriatic-ionian sea basin, with a view to giving a major boost to the development of sustainable economic activities which will have a beneficial effect on coastal communities and adjacent inland areas. i believe that a eu macro-regional strategy for the adriatic-ionian sea basin should be implemented, as well as inter-regional cooperation arrangements, in order to benefit entire regions.
in writing. - the current economic difficulties in the european union are prompting a redoubled effort to improve the conditions for doing business, both within and outside the community. one of these actions is to deepen cooperation in the mediterranean region. the union for the mediterranean, which was established in 2008, makes the possibility of establishing a free trade area in the mediterranean increasingly real.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs esther de lange on more efficient and cost-effective interpretation services in the european parliament. the principle of multilingualism is the basis of the european parliament's work, and therefore, in order to enable each member of the european parliament to use the official language of his or her choice, the use of interpretation services is essential. however, the budget allocated to these services should be used to the best possible extent, while maintaining the highest standards. to this end, the number of late cancellations of interpretation contracts should be significantly reduced. the appropriations for the purchase of software to facilitate the management of translation services should also be increased. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise that improving the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of interpreting in the european parliament would bring many benefits to members of the european parliament and would greatly relieve the budget of the european union.
in writing. – i voted in favor of pursuing ‘resource-efficient full multilingualism’. millions were spent on late cancellations of interpretation services, a problem which could be solved by the implementation of a penalty clause. members’ language profiles should be updated every year to ensure efficiency as well.
in writing. the multilingualism of the european parliament guarantees the possibility for members to express themselves in their own official language and to ensure transparency towards all european citizens who can thus exercise their right of democratic control over the activities of the european parliament. however, there is a need to reduce the burden of the complex machine of multilingualism without compromising the high level of translation. i believe that mrs de lange's report takes the right approach to the interpretation service, taking into account both the need to rationalize costs and, at the same time, the need to make the service more efficient, thanks to a more careful management of resources, which can be fully shared in the context of the crisis we are going through.
in writing. - the alternative proposal proposed by the s&d group, which was eventually adopted, stressed the need to maintain multilingualism in order to maintain the transparency of the european parliament's activities so that every citizen could, for example, listen to debates in plenary sessions in his or her mother tongue. it is worth noting that when working in the european parliament, we often encounter highly specialised, technical texts. it is not easy to work with such texts in every area of the ep's work if they are not in the person's mother tongue. the rapporteur placed a strong emphasis on the availability of translation services for internal users, i.e. members and ep staff. in my view, and in the opinion of my group, it is the final recipient, the citizen, who must have access to the live debates and be able to hear them in his own language, especially since it is the only directly elected eu institution.
in writing. within the multilingual european community, community law in general force requires expression in each of the official languages, so that every citizen can have access to documents in his or her own language. this is a prerequisite for understanding and applying established law. in practice, the translation services appointed by the european commission are responsible for implementing the current language regime. they have a variety of tools to help them do their job better, and they are constantly being improved. that is why i am in favour of developing this area, which is a priority in the context of the eu's functioning.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? gambling is a specific sector of economic activity where consumer protection often remains highly unsatisfactory. some countries have adopted regulations that significantly restrict gambling services. however, online offers differ from traditional ones in that they can be used virtually freely by citizens throughout the community. a high level of consumer protection is therefore crucial in this respect. restricting access to minors is just one aspect. a well-functioning internal market cannot remain indifferent to these issues either, and must regulate them in accordance with community law. a more coherent policy should therefore be pursued within the european union in order to take account of the cross-border nature of gambling services, in particular with regard to the offending states. the fight against crime in the field of gambling services, which often extends to sports competitions, is a matter for close cooperation between all countries.
in writing. - i would like to say that i support the ashley fox report on online gambling in the internal market. the project, for which i was an expert on behalf of the legal affairs committee, aims to combat illegal online gambling services and to regulate them in order to protect consumers, especially young users. i would like to draw particular attention to the need for better cooperation in the gambling sector, both at community level and between the relevant competent institutions in the member states. at the same time, i would like to stress the principle of subsidiarity and the right of member states to control their own markets. i also consider it important that the member states cooperate in the fight against money laundering and the manipulation of sports results, including organised crime, which threatens the integrity of sport in the european union. i believe that the definitions of offences and criminal sanctions should be harmonised in order to be able to combat illegal sports betting and match-fixing more effectively. national bodies should be established to ensure coordination and exchange of information in this field. i also propose to use the french model, which allows for the financing of sport, social and charitable purposes and cultural works from a part of the income of the gambling industry, obtained from the right to organise sports betting.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs ashley fox on online gambling in the internal market. the document proposes, inter alia, the introduction of appropriate preventive measures, including verification systems, preventing players from creating an unlimited number of accounts and providing false personal data, educational programmes for young people to raise awareness of the risks associated with gambling, and restricting the advertising of gambling services or prohibiting the provision of misleading information about the probability of winning. it also focuses on combating money laundering and the fixing of sporting results by criminal organisations. the report proposed a variety of measures to prevent money from illegal sources from being traded. attention was also drawn to the need for specific support and protection of athletes and their associates against corruption in order to prevent the manipulation of sporting events. the report proposed by the honourable member deals with important issues which are of the utmost relevance in an age of rapidly progressing computerisation. the significantly easier access to gambling services not only increases the likelihood of more players taking up gambling, but may also result in an increase in the percentage of people who are addicted. i believe that the changes proposed in the rapporteur's report will prevent economic losses in the member states, but above all possible health problems for their citizens.
in writing. − the online gambling sector is a special sector because, on the one hand, it is a market activity if it offers fair and legal services, and on the other hand, it often has social costs and harmful effects. that is why it is so important to ensure a high level of protection of consumers in this sector, and in particular of the most vulnerable, such as minors. the report highlights the importance of this issue and calls for action to be taken to better protect consumers using gambling services. that's why i supported the report. it should also be stressed that it is for the member states to decide how to organise and regulate gambling services in accordance with their own values and general interest objectives, and that any action at union level must therefore respect the principle of subsidiarity. however, it is important to pay attention to the problems that arise in the context of online gambling, such as organised crime, gambling addiction, money laundering. it is crucial to make consumers aware of these risks and the legislation governing online gambling advertising, which cannot give the impression that gambling is a method of improving an individual's financial situation, is an important issue. a self-exclusion register would also be a useful solution. the register will allow consumers to opt out automatically of all licensed gambling operators. it is equally important to use age and identity verification mechanisms to protect minors.
in writing. europe is the largest online gambling market and one of the fastest growing online businesses. with almost 7 million users, the revenues of companies will increase to 13 billion euros by 2015. the size and specificity of this market means that its regulation and supervision must be effective and go hand in hand with social issues, in order to protect consumers and avoid fraud and match-fixing. with the rapid development of technology, online gambling is now available not only on computers but also via mobile phones and television. however, individual eu countries cannot, on their own, provide the high level of protection against the risks of unregulated gambling that every eu citizen deserves. in view of this, i want to support a coherent policy for online gambling in the european union, respecting the laws of e-monopoly. a comprehensive european gambling solution should contribute to licensing gambling and make it more attractive, discouraging consumers from using unregulated offers.
in writing. - thank you to the rapporteur for presenting your position on online gambling. the negative effects of gambling are well-known, and it often contributes not only to addiction but also to organized crime, sports betting, and money laundering. online gambling also involves greater risk because it is more easily accessible. i am therefore pleased that measures are being taken to control and restrict access, especially for minors and those at particular risk, to this type of activity. in the fight against crime and tax fraud, it is also important to ensure that any restrictions are not discriminatory. the key issue is that each member state has the right to define rules in the internal market to protect players, while respecting the principles of union law. the fight against corruption and the fixing of sports results were also discussed. the exchange of information between sporting bodies, both national and european, is essential to help combat suspicious and criminal activity. the positive aspects of lotteries, such as the financial resources that are donated for public and social purposes, have not been forgotten.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the appointment of luigi berlinguer to the panel set up under article 255 of the tfeu. the legal affairs committee was asked to consider a replacement at the court of justice for current representative ana palacio, and the panel is not asked to assess a candidate’s particular views, but rather their theoretical competence in discharging the duties of a judge or advocate-general of the court. in the view of the coordinator, mr berlinguer has the capacity to evaluate proposed candidates’ legal knowledge and professional competence. he is respected for his deep knowledge of the law and the activities of the court within the legal affairs committee, and, in view of the competence-based tasks assigned to the panel, can be supported by the ecr.
mr. chairman, please! i have two aspects to this debate today. the first aspect concerns the work on the long-term perspective, the question of loyalty and honesty between partners, keeping our word, meeting deadlines, but also ensuring financial liquidity in the budget of the european union. the first aspect relates to current affairs and concerns issues relating to the future budget. but there is another aspect that is equally important. in fact, we are also discussing the inefficiency of systemic solutions today. in fact, we are in a situation where the european union's coffers are running out of money. we all know that the increase of 11 billion is absolutely unique and unprecedented in the history of the european union. the 11 billion increase is a huge expense for the member states. we as members of parliament should be aware of this. this is a huge effort, but it must be made not because the european parliament wants it to be made, but because in recent years the payments have been defined as too low. and so the problems started to pile up. today's debate must be about the budgetary system in the european union, it must be about how to avoid a situation where the union becomes unreliable because it does not pay for the commitments it has agreed to. i would therefore ask that today's debate not only be a conclusion to our negotiations, but also a starting point for a debate on the future reform of the budgetary system of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to express my concern about the cuts planned by the council in the 2014 budget, both on the commitment and payment sides. the european commission has already proposed a 6% cut in the budget compared to the previous year, which seems to be a serious reduction, especially in times of crisis. i am particularly surprised that the council has decided to make the biggest cuts in section 1a, which means less expenditure on competitiveness and employment growth. this is in contradiction to the council decision in june to allocate more funds to programmes promoting youth employment and economic growth. i hope that today's debate will contribute to a change of attitude on the part of the heads of state and government.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? i would like to start by thanking my colleagues for their input and commitment to the report. i would like to thank the two co-rapporteurs in particular for their constructive discussions and comments. despite the efforts of the european commission and the european parliament, and despite the many policy initiatives and actions taken since the beginning of this year, there has been no significant improvement in the statistics relating to youth unemployment. while some countries have managed to contain the general rise in unemployment, the situation among young people remains dramatic, particularly in countries such as greece, spain, portugal and italy. so today i would like to draw attention once again to the actions that must be taken in the near future. first, the implementation of the youth guarantee. before the holidays, a new group of graduates has entered the labour market, and they are likely to join the ranks of the unemployed youth. the guarantees are a solution that will not leave jobseekers without support. it will enable the unemployed person to obtain additional training or appropriate vocational guidance. i would like to stress here the justified need to extend the guarantee to persons under 30 years of age, particularly as this was not a requirement in the berlin declaration made after the meeting of the european union's labour ministers in july this year. there is an urgent need for employment promotion measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises to create new jobs and to employ young people. we need to focus on supporting young people through age-specific programmes, career guidance, promoting entrepreneurship and helping them to start their own businesses. i am a great believer in the creativity of europe's young people, but we need a system of tax breaks and administrative relief for self-employment. in addition to initiatives aimed at creating new jobs, we need a proper redistribution of labour, which is still available on the market. this requires a specific involvement of national employment services and the promotion of the eures portal. we should support those who are willing to move in search of work, both within their country of origin and outside it, within the european union. among the long-term actions that need to be taken to make the traineeship system work is to accelerate work on the quality framework for traineeships. that is what i am calling on the european commission to do today. the traineeship should be a genuine educational contribution to the young person's portfolio and not a form of exploitation. work performed during the traineeship should be adequately remunerated. the issue of neet involvement is also a pressing one and requires coordinated action between both the education sector (in the context of early leavers) and the employment services. they are the ones who, through a counselling system and an individual approach, can help the most vulnerable to social exclusion. another very important aspect of the long-term action is the reform of education systems to increase the amount of practical skills and vocational training that people entering the labour market should acquire during the training cycle. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the cooperation of all the actors involved, in particular educational establishments, employers, local authorities and youth organisations, is essential for the effective implementation of the recommended actions. youth organisations should be seen as a reliable partner for discussing solutions to remove barriers to young people entering the labour market.
mr. chairman, please! the unemployment figures are alarming. on average, one in four people under 25 is unemployed. economic losses in 2011 alone amounted to €153 billion, and social losses are difficult to estimate. those who do have a job are mostly in fixed-term or part-time jobs. the exploitation of trainees as cheap or even free labour is becoming more and more widespread. there is a huge risk that many young people who are currently unemployed will remain so. dependence on state aid combined with disability leads to permanent exclusion from the labour market. effective and efficient action is needed. improving the availability and quality of apprenticeship provision at all levels of education should be a very important element of the employment strategy to fill the approximately four million jobs in the european union that are unfilled due to skills mismatch. the idea of mrs skrzylewska's report should also be implemented, with the european commission working with national governments to develop annual plans to coordinate... (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what are you doing? unfortunately, i cannot agree with the green group's statement that my report is a step backwards from the green group's report, which was prepared in 2009. it analyses the factors that exacerbate or maintain the difficult situation of young people in the labour market and indicates the direction of the further action to be taken by the member states to curb the rise in unemployment. i cannot agree with the statement that the plight of young people is due solely to the current economic crisis. we can't forget that this is a structural problem. the increase in jobs depends on the overall state of the economy and an environment that is friendly to entrepreneurs, because they are the ones who create jobs. the actions under the youth guarantee are intended to help young people adapt to the current situation on an ad hoc basis and to provide them with an alternative when it is not possible for them to take up work at that time. i agree with part of what mr romeva and mr rueda, from the green group, said about the need to adapt the education system to the needs of the labour market. i therefore urge the green group to support my report, because most of the points you have mentioned today and which you have put down in your alternative resolution are in my report. i think that the european parliament should be united on this issue in order to send a clear and strong signal. it's time we put words in place of deeds.
in writing the crisis that has gripped the world since 2008 has hit young people particularly hard. according to statistics, one in four young people in europe cannot find a job! the most visible consequence of this is not only the impoverishment of young people but also uncontrolled migration for the sake of earning a living. and it is the present generation of young people that is the future of any country. young people are characterised by a lack of experience and, consequently, by a reduced attractiveness for employers. some of them take advantage of the labour market situation to recruit young graduates for unpaid traineeships or offer so-called 'junk' contracts. in such a situation, the union has a duty to respond and member states should make use of all the possibilities available at this level to develop and co-finance initiatives aimed, inter alia, at adapting education and training systems to changing labour market conditions. in this respect, the report by mrs skrzylewska deserves the attention and support of parliament.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. in the youth debate, it is worth considering the introduction of market mechanisms that would reduce the public spending on training young people in skills that are less needed on the labour market, and thus promote the courses that are currently sought after by employers and in demand. i think we should now pay attention to vocational training and make young people aware of the situation on the labour market already in secondary schools. in addition, universities should pay attention to training qualified professionals from the outset, and provide and promote attractive internships with potential employers, so that young people have the opportunity to try their hand at a chosen profession immediately after graduation. it is therefore necessary to modernise education and to adapt curricula to current and future market needs. i would like to conclude by stressing that only the synchronised action of governments, local authorities, the european institutions and the various agencies can bring the expected results and allow us to look to the future with optimism.
in writing. the crisis has intensified negative trends that have been contributing to the labour market problems of young people for some time. on the one hand, competition from older and more experienced workers, and on the other, the lack of support in the form of traineeships and vocational training to enable young people to gain such important first experiences. high youth unemployment is not only an underutilization of human potential, but also a decline in consumption and low levels of investment. i believe that simply providing additional financial resources will not be enough, we need the most comprehensive approach possible. to make the impact of these 8 billion more effective, we need to improve the public support infrastructure for the young unemployed, and build modern institutions that are responsive to the dynamic changes in the labour market. the fight against youth unemployment will not bring about lasting change unless we involve the private sector in the process. we must encourage entrepreneurs to create jobs and support the work of ngos. i support the rapporteur's proposals in this respect. an effective incentive system should include, for example, tax breaks, reimbursement of social security costs and preferences in access to european funding.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the following aspect, which i believe is important. today's discussion is mainly about the technical and economic aspects of the development of the telecommunications market, the creation of a single market in europe, the expansion of broadband internet and the reduction of charges for using this market. in other words, this discussion is about broadening access to the digital world. however, i think we are completely underestimating the social aspect, which is preparing eu citizens to use the digital benefits wisely. i also think that the elderly, of whom there are over 150 million in europe, should be treated differently. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the future of the internet.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by thanking mrs isabella very warmly for her very good and balanced report and for the whole process of negotiation and her involvement. in the light of the conservation of eel species, two important arguments made in the report are worth mentioning. firstly, the rapporteur points out that the quantity and quality of scientific research is insufficient and that these studies do not provide a clear answer to the question of what are the causes of the decline in the eel population. secondly, as a result of a malfunctioning coding system, the eels reported by individual countries do not correspond to the data contained in eurostat statistics or published by eurostat. the reporting errors raise serious problems for the whole area of quotas and their reporting in the context of the assessment of the state of marine resources. as a result, missing or incorrect data become the basis for fisheries management. i must refer to the commission's present decision on the baltic sea, which increases the fishing quotas for pelagic species, thus extending the catches for fishmeal. this will lead to the destruction of the baltic's biological system and the destruction of small-scale fisheries. already the thriving cod is on the verge of collapse. i therefore call on the commission to reform the reporting of catches in particular.
in writing. in view of the ever-decreasing stock of european eel, the protection of eels and the promotion of their reproductive succession is a very important element for the sustainability of the fisheries sector. it is important to introduce legal rules providing for sanctions for those eu countries which do not provide the data necessary for the evaluation of eel stocks. this is a problem that affects many regions of the eu, including the warmia and mazury region, which i have the honour to represent. it's a very specialized subject, and there are many elements to make things better. the main reasons for the decline in eel populations are commercial and economic catches and artificial barriers to the natural migration routes of fish. it should be noted that the apparent improvement will not be achieved by overfishing, since it only allows local stocking and does not give global effects or further reproduction of this species. the only way forward is to ban the european eel and to find solutions by removing artificial barriers in the rivers. it is justified to designate streams and associated bodies of standing water where eels have a chance to migrate and homing naturally in order to protect them and to introduce a total ban on fishing for eels. therefore, as a first step, all open waters and the coastal zone should be subject to a prohibition of fishing.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. the document under discussion today is not only a basic legal act in the field of customs union, but should also be regarded as one of the instruments for making the internal market more attractive and competitive. in this report, the european parliament rightly emphasises the objective of simplifying procedures and creating conditions favourable to entrepreneurs. the customs union is an essential element of the single market and only properly implemented, coherent rules will allow that market to function properly and to fulfil its potential. the report rightly stressed the need for uniform implementation of the customs code in all 28 countries. hence the requirement that all member states should in principle use electronic data exchange between customs authorities and businesses. this will avoid duplication of procedures which could have a negative impact on the costs of doing business in europe. derogations from this principle should be possible only in exceptional circumstances. i think that's a very reasonable approach. the idea of the rapporteur, mrs le grip, to create a system where the trader would only have to provide information to the customs authorities once, deserves support. this is possible thanks to the introduction of modern information systems. such action will not only make life easier for entrepreneurs, but also ensure uniform controls at a high level. another worthy demand is the introduction of provisions on the status of authorised economic operator in the amended regulation. this will allow sound entrepreneurs to make the most of the simplification and will also encourage them to comply with the letter of the law. in conclusion, i think it is worth noting that in her report the rapporteur not only focused on the alignment of the rules with the lisbon treaty and the necessary modernisation of customs legislation, but also treated the customs union as an instrument which is essential for the competitiveness of the internal market. there is no doubt that in the long term, simplification for businesses will have a positive impact on economic growth in the european union.
madam president! the single european market should ensure consistency in the regulation of intra-community trade. a significant part of this is the customs legislation, the harmonisation and modernisation of which will help to increase the union's competitiveness vis-à-vis other markets and economic growth. i am in favour of simplifying customs regulations so that traders do not have to repeat procedures related to their trading activities. a single electronic system in all countries will reduce the cost of doing business significantly. it should therefore have a positive impact on the prices of products, which are always in the interest of consumers to be reduced. the status of the favoured undertakings should be clearly specified in order to allow them to benefit from a wide range of facilities. valuable business time would also be saved by standardising the temporary storage declarations. the current requirement to submit the relevant declarations twice is often unnecessary and only prolongs the procedures. documents must be clear and precise so as not to give rise to difficulties of interpretation.
mr president, mr president of the commission! we are even arguing today about the state of the european union in the fifth and, hopefully, last year of a crisis that - it is true - did not start in europe, but has also painfully affected our continent. unlike many speakers, both on the left and on the far right of this chamber, i believe that the eu institutions have been able to respond properly to the challenges posed by the crisis. the latest example of this was the very clever compromise on the multiannual eu budget, which for many regions in europe, especially those in the throes of a serious crisis, will be the only source of funds for public investment and thus for growth and jobs. mr barroso, the crisis has also seen a rise in xenophobic sentiment, with calls to restrict the key eu freedom of movement of people within the single european market, with the right to choose where to live and work legally. i hope and expect, mr president barroso, that the european commission will continue to defend this fundamental right against the populist ideas that appear here and there, not only in public debate, not only in parliamentary debate, but also in the statements - and this is very worrying - of many members of the governments of the member states. the third thing i would like to draw attention to is our eastern neighbourhood. despite the internal economic troubles, despite the political fatigue of the enlargement of the european union, we cannot turn our backs on our eastern neighbours. especially now that these countries are under enormous political pressure from russia. i therefore appeal to you, mr president barroso, and to the lithuanian presidency, represented here by the foreign minister, not to waste the opportunity of the eastern partnership summit in vilnius to sign and immediately, even provisionally, implement an association agreement with ukraine and to start a similar process with the other eastern partnership countries. this is a chance for a historic shift in our new eastern neighborhood that we cannot afford to lose.
in writing. data coming in from the european economy show that the worst of the crisis is behind us. however, the economic recovery is very weak and does not translate into an improvement in the labour market. most analysts agree that the modest economic growth we are seeing in the next few years will not create many jobs. we must also remember that the ones that are created are usually temporary and low-cost. the eu therefore needs a new industrial policy. the recovery efforts of recent years have focused primarily on reducing public expenditure. the situation on the labour market shows very clearly that these measures were perhaps not wrong, but certainly too one-sided. they need to be complemented by initiatives to support job creation, which should be geared towards attracting industrial investment to europe. we must not deceive ourselves that new or green technologies will not create jobs for all europeans. we should look to the united states, which is becoming more and more effective in persuading entrepreneurs to invest in america. this was of course influenced by lower labour costs and lower energy prices, but it was also supported by the active attitude of local authorities at all levels. it seems that europe should follow the same path to improve the labour market situation.
in writing. there is a broad consensus in the european parliament that the main problem facing the european union today is unemployment, and in particular youth unemployment. it's good that the eu is trying to reduce unemployment. but let us not forget that neither the state nor international organisations - in general - create jobs. we should therefore focus on creating conditions for those who will in turn create sustainable jobs. we can help entrepreneurs create wealth, but we can't try to replace them. we believe that the european socioeconomic model is the best in the world. and that's probably true in reality, but we have to remember that this model is not a perfect being. it must be continuously improved and improved, and above all, it must be supported by the economy, which is the real and irreplaceable fuel for the european model. without a healthy european economy, the european model cannot and will not function properly.
in writing. with regard to the message from president barroso, it should be stressed that the state of the eu is currently difficult to define clearly, as a result of europe's high dependence on the global situation. the union institutions in the field of banking supervision are still lacking in clarity. the single market is undoubtedly the union's greatest asset, but it is still incomplete, with, among other things, a continuing lack of a community market for services and a slow pace of development of the banking union. economic governance in europe is often reduced to manual controls and there is a lack of system solutions. the food security of our continent is satisfactory, but european farmers have too little income; we have fewer and fewer young people willing to take over farms; we are losing out to food imports. our outer activities are still too small and disorganized. the president did not address the results of the recently created european external action service. however, it can be assumed that much remains to be done in this area. there was also no broader reference to the issue of the reduction of the eu's multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, which for the first time in history will have a budgetary cut. how do these budget cuts relate to croatia's adoption of the europe 2020 strategy, which sets out ambitious plans for us? how do we close the huge development gaps between member states, regions or simply between the living standards of eu citizens?
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr françois alfonsi on the protection of endangered european languages and the preservation of linguistic diversity throughout the european union. the document provides for action to be taken to ensure the protection of endangered european languages. the actions presented in the report are to focus on, inter alia, funding language protection programmes, combating discrimination on the grounds of language and ethnic minority, promoting multilingualism and ensuring language sustainability by encouraging children to learn an endangered language as their mother tongue. the current legal framework does not sufficiently address the issue of language protection. this is one of the reasons for their disappearance, which in turn leads to the disappearance of entire language areas. i believe that clarifying the issue of endangered languages will translate into preserving them and thus preserving linguistic and cultural diversity, which is one of the principles of the european union.
in writing. - linguistic diversity, alongside cultural and religious diversity, is one of the fundamental principles of the functioning of the european union, enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. it is part of the heritage of the member state concerned and its survival must be encouraged, as it leads to the development of local communities and the building of regional identity. unfortunately, more and more languages are in danger of extinction, often a language that is recognized as a minority language in one country and an official language in another. their users are decreasing, they are not developing, they are not adapting to new ways of using language and modern communication channels, there is a lack of materials to teach them, and their users eventually lose all motivation to use them regularly. and yet, the survival of a language is the survival of the community that speaks it. therefore, we should take appropriate steps to protect endangered languages. the european institutions should develop programmes to help preserve endangered languages using financial support instruments. the teaching of these languages should be disseminated using modern technologies (digitisation of texts and recordings, their online availability) and all eu member states should sign and ratify the european charter for regional or minority languages and the framework convention for the protection of national minorities. unfortunately, there are still countries in the eu where even languages that are not endangered are discriminated against and not accepted, as exemplified by the situation of the polish national minority in lithuania.
in writing. − i voted in favour of protecting endangered languages within the eu member states. pro-active measures will lead to greater use of language across all levels of society. even though the initiative might require additional financial commitments, i believe that it is important to implement increased usage of endangered languages in all aspects of daily life.
in writing. - i would like to thank the rapporteur for referring to the issue of endangered european languages and linguistic diversity in the eu member states. the protection and promotion of minority languages, which are a sign of multiculturalism and diversity, is an important asset. these languages also have the same value and are an undeniable historical, social and cultural heritage. language is a way of identifying oneself, which is why it is so important to focus on promoting and protecting endangered languages. i am pleased that efforts are being made to combat prejudice and discrimination on the basis of language and those that do not aim at language uniformity. support at the pre-school, school and out-of-school education levels, such as the family, where the child acquires natural language skills, is also a key initiative. promoting the learning of endangered languages plays an important role in the cultural heritage of the communities themselves and of europe as a whole. the promotion of languages also contributes to the development of tolerance towards different ethnic or linguistic groups and has a positive impact not only on the cultural but also on the economic and social dimensions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which seeks to correct an anomaly by which parliament does not possess the formal legal right to require candidates for the post of european environmental agency (eea) executive director to attend a hearing before the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. i support the proposal to insert formally the requirement for a hearing in the eeaʼs founding regulation, in order to align the eea with the procedures in the european chemicals agency, the european medicines agency and the european food safety agency. i support any move towards greater accountability for the eu agencies, and parliamentary hearings provide a rare opportunity to apply some scrutiny to these bodies.
in writing. − i voted for the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund for areas affected by flooding in autumn 2012, specifically slovenia, croatia, and austria. the commissionʼs proposal to provide assistance is in line with the regulation, and i support the use of the solidarity fund to provide aid based on estimates of total damage. my heart goes out to all those individuals who lost their homes during this natural disaster.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 5/2013, which is part of a package of proposals for amending the 2013 budget approved today and for which i am rapporteur, together with mr fernandes, concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund, amounting to eur 14.6 million, following the disasters caused by the heavy rains and floods that hit slovenia, croatia and austria in autumn 2012. this is one of many examples of the importance of solidarity in europe and of the closeness of the community, including in terms of aid and economic support for the victims and those affected by these natural disasters.
in writing. - the report by mrs la via was put to the vote along with mr fernandez's report. they gave the go-ahead for the european union solidarity fund, which has been in existence since 2002, to support regions affected by disasters, in order to help, in this case, slovenia, croatia and austria to deal with the effects of last year's floods. the biggest success is that the €14.6 million allocated to these three countries will come from new funds and will not be covered at the expense of other policy priorities.
in writing. - i voted against the legislative resolution adopted by the parliament. the document would essentially limit the share of agricultural bio-based components from 10% to 6%, with the remaining 4% to be made up of 2,5% advanced biofuels and 1,5% biofuels from other renewable sources. i believe that the adoption by the council of the european parliament's resolution in its present form would significantly undermine legal stability, which would not only result in a loss of confidence on the part of producer groups or investors, but would also contribute to a reduction in employment in the sector. the production of biofuels from biocomponents is mainly undertaken by small companies, for whom a radical change in the production profile to advanced fuels may prove too difficult. it should be borne in mind that the changes proposed by the european parliament could have an impact on all sectors of the economy, including the eventual reduction of global production. i question the fact that the new assumptions are based on an unreliable and untested iluc (indirect land-use change) factor. especially because it uses uncertain data and a complicated methodology, and so it gives different results in each institution. in view of the arguments put forward, i believe that the document under discussion can be improved during the second reading to the extent that it ultimately reflects the interests not only of poland but also of the european union as a whole.
(s&d), in writing. - the european parliament adopted a controversial climate and energy package in the previous term, but life has shown that we were wrong. i think that the present report should be seen as the beginning of a move away from a package which is ill-conceived and harmful to the eu economy. first generation biofuels - bioethanol added to petrol, biodiesel (methyl ester) - which were supposed to replace at least 10% of the energy contained in fuels, have been shown to increase total co2 emissions. i don't think we can replace 10% of traditional fuels by 2020 and achieve a 6% reduction in co2 emissions. this is because the production of bioethanol does not take into account the co2 emissions during fermentation and the agricultural by-products, and the fact that dehydrated spirits contain less energy than petrol and need to be used twice as much, which leads to an increase in the fuel consumption of petrol engines, which means an increase in co2 emissions. methyl bio-esters, on the other hand, also contain about 20% less energy than regular petroleum. to get the right engine power, we'll increase fuel consumption and co2 and particulate matter emissions. although polish investors will lose economically because they have already complied with the previous regulations, i support this report. i do this because i hope that the other elements of the climate and energy package will also be changed accordingly. otherwise, the losses will be catastrophic.
in writing. - parliament adopted the wrong draft based on the wrong assumptions put forward by the european commission. the target for biofuels in final energy consumption in transport was set five years ago. it cannot be changed when the entrepreneurs, on the basis of the law adopted, are in the process of implementing investments, including many co-financed by union funds, including those that were conditional on the sustainability of the project. such behaviour undermines trust in the law and institutions of the european union. that is why i have opposed the commission's amendments from the outset. i hope that the second reading will remove the main flaws in this draft which could lead to the disintegration of the entire biofuels sector in europe.
in writing. − i support an eu biofuels policy which prevents the unintended promotion of polluting biofuels as well as the distortion of crop prices on a global level that encourages poverty. from my point of view, we should ensure appropriate market penetration of innovative and less harming biofuels that do not compete for land needed to grow crops. however, i would like to underline that the voting was only to amend the proposal but not on the legislative resolution.
in writing. − for 10 years, the european parliament has actively promoted the production of biofuels from oilseeds. the funds allocated to this purpose have had a real impact on the development of agriculture in many countries and the creation of thousands of new jobs. second generation biofuels, from organic plants or waste, are not yet produced on an industrial scale and therefore cannot be an alternative to first generation biofuels in the near future. the new regulations will reduce the competitiveness of biofuel companies operating on the european market compared to those operating in south america, for example, and the limits on food-based biofuels will have a negative impact on the whole sector. moreover, it is very likely that the funds allocated to research and development of new technologies in the biofuels industry will be reduced in the new perspective. given that the share of biofuels used in transport should be 10% on 1 january 2020, the european union should continue to actively promote the production of biofuels. unfortunately, the directive adopted will significantly reduce the volume of production of crops such as rapeseed and palm oil, which will result in the elimination of many jobs.
in writing. − i thank the rapporteur for the proposals on the quality of petrol and diesel and the promotion of renewable energy. in view of the eu's policy to promote renewable energy sources, it is gratifying to see that the biofuels industry is also having not only positive but also negative effects, for example on the food industry. biofuel production cannot compete for agricultural uses with the food and feed markets. the eu should support projects that benefit citizens, not harm them. as an opponent of co2 caps, i believe that sustainable action should be taken and that the good and interests of all member states should be taken into account.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposed solutions to restore the european eel stock. the eel population is now on the brink of extinction. the factors contributing to such a drastic decline include overfishing, climate change, significant pollution of water, and the construction of new dams and dikes that prevent eels from migrating freely. the protection of this species is therefore particularly important, also because of the lack of an effective method of reproduction in captivity. parliament decided to require member states to monitor eel rescue more closely than in previous years. if they fail to meet this criterion, countries will be subject to severe fishing sanctions. i believe that the measures taken by the members of parliament will contribute significantly to the increase in the number of eels in our waters.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amending existing regulations in an effort to tackle the long-term problem of declining eel stocks across the european union. the compromises contained in the report adopted by the committee recognise the importance of scientific study, community consultation, and impact assessments. i am in favour of working with the commission on ways to improve eel stock recovery, as this will address falling stock levels, the challenges facing the industry, and the importance of protecting rural industries and traditions.
in writing. - a customs union is one of the key aspects of a well-functioning internal market. without modern and common rules and systems that are applied consistently, the single market cannot function properly. i supported the report because it makes the necessary changes and brings the eu customs rules into line with the procedural requirements of the lisbon treaty and other changes in eu legislation. it should be stressed that the rules adopted today introduce changes that are beneficial for operators, as they simplify procedures while maintaining due diligence in controls. i would mention here the institution of the aeo, which has been in operation since 2008. once granted aeo status by the customs authorities, traders can benefit from the facilities related to customs controls on safety and security as well as from the simplifications provided for in the customs legislation. the adopted report enhances the importance of aeo status to enable credible, compliant operators to benefit to the maximum extent from a wide range of simplifications. this would mean, inter alia, that any criteria for the use of the business-related simplifications by an aeo should not be re-checked, which would be a significant facilitation for companies. i also believe that the key issue is the uniform implementation and application of the union customs code in all member states, so as to make the best use of electronic techniques.
in writing. − i voted in favour of proposed adjustments to the union customs code. the text states that the commission should ensure transparent consultation, well in advance, when preparing and drawing up delegated acts, of the member statesʼ experts and the business community. the adjustment to the code involves authorised economic operators (aeo), centralised clearance, use of electronic systems, rules of origin, and temporary storage. my group voted in favour of the outcome of the trialogue in committee, and the amended text was adopted by imco unanimously.
in writing. - in the era of the reform of the common agricultural policy, from which we want a fair, competitive and efficient cap, we cannot forget about modern solutions that will help achieve the other objectives of a transparent, simple and functional policy, a modern policy adapted to the needs of today's europe, to modern ways of obtaining information, practical for a new generation of farmers. to achieve these goals, we need the right tools. one such tool is the farm accountancy data network (fadn), which helps to determine the incomes and analyse the activities of a representative part of farms and which covers some 80 000 farms in 27 member states. it was established in 1965 and is the database on which the current economic and structural situation of eu agriculture is based. the proposal we are voting on introduces certain amendments to the fadn regulation, bringing it into line with the current legislative framework and calling for regular updates and modernisation of the network's website. this will make it much easier to access, faster to retrieve information, and more accurate and reliable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the amendment of food safety directives on coffee, chocolate, certain specified sugars, jams and preserved milks. the adopted report by the committee on the environment, approved unanimously in the committee, strictly limits the delegation of powers, ensuring that annexes relating to descriptions, definitions or names of products are considered as essential elements and can only be changed by way of the ordinary legislative procedure. the final text limits the commission’s powers to technical updates only, and the ordinary legislative procedure will apply where annexes relating to products’ names, definitions and characteristics are to be amended.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs maria gabriel on the agreements concluded between the european union and the republic of cape verde. the first of these guarantees a number of facilitations for the short-stay visa for both citizens of the republic and eu citizens. they may count, inter alia, on simplification of procedures for issuing multiple-entry visas, exemption from visa fees for some of their nationals and free extension of visas for those nationals of both countries who, for reasons beyond their control, are unable to leave the territory of the union or the republic of cape verde within the specified deadline. the readmission agreement also deals with the procedures applicable to eu and cape verdean citizens staying illegally in their respective territories. the parties agree to take back returned illegal immigrants and their families. i am confident that these arrangements will facilitate the movement of persons and intensify contacts between citizens of the union and the republic of cape verde.
in writing. - i thank the rapporteur for raising the issue of the conclusion of an agreement between the eu and the republic of cape verde on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation. what's important is that both parties have a mutual partnership agreement. democracy and respect for human rights are the overriding goals. the eu has expressed its support, and i hope that the benefits of mutual cooperation will be mutually satisfactory.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs maria gabriel on the agreements concluded between the european union and the republic of cape verde. the first of these guarantees a number of facilitations for the short-stay visa for both citizens of the republic and eu citizens. they may count, inter alia, on simplification of procedures for issuing multiple-entry visas, exemption from visa fees for some of their nationals and free extension of visas for those nationals of both countries who, for reasons beyond their control, are unable to leave the territory of the union or the republic of cape verde within the specified deadline. the readmission agreement also deals with the procedures applicable to eu and cape verdean citizens staying illegally in their respective territories. the parties agree to take back returned illegal immigrants and their families. i am confident that these arrangements will facilitate the movement of persons and intensify contacts between citizens of the union and the republic of cape verde.
in writing. - i support the report by mr georgios papanikolaou on the implementation of the european union strategy for youth 2010-2012. during the first phase of the strategy, the main issues addressed included strengthening cooperation between member states in supporting young people and promoting entrepreneurship and greater civic engagement. the situation is not easy. the economic crisis has led to a sharp increase in unemployment, especially among young people. i therefore welcome the european union's determination to combat the effects of the crisis and to find solutions to provide young people with better opportunities for the future. the priority will be to adapt the youth education system to meet the requirements of the labour market, while ensuring that young people have the opportunity to find satisfactory offers. another important task i see is to use new technologies and social media, as their role in our daily lives is increasing day by day. i hope that the changes will have a positive impact on the employment situation of young people and help to reduce the negative effects of the crisis.
in writing. - providing young people with better life opportunities is now more important than ever. the economic crisis has hit young people particularly hard, with rising unemployment making them lose out on experience and their first job. the youth strategy provides a well-thought-out way to develop not only in the career field, but also in the areas of health, social inclusion, culture and creativity. one of the key areas of the strategy is action in the area of employment and entrepreneurship, and member states are responsible for its implementation. initiatives such as the 'youth guarantee' and the expected increase in funding for young people in the 'erasmus for all' programme in the coming financial perspective are certainly important here. the new cycle of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015 will also focus on creating employment opportunities for young people. the report adopted today aims to propose solutions to the most problematic issues and to support member states' political strategies. it is up to the individual countries to develop more effective tools and targeted actions to make good use of the financial resources available and to match initiatives. the report notes that despite high unemployment, 2 million jobs among young people remain unfilled due to skills mismatches.
in writing. - young people are the future of us all, which is why i'm glad this debate is taking place. they face many obstacles, and we should help them to overcome them. unfortunately, they cover a wide range of areas. i'd like to draw your attention to health and fitness. the alarming rates of obesity among young people indicate the need for immediate preventive action. as members of the committee on agriculture, we have taken many actions in this area, such as the 'fruit in schools' initiative. we need to take additional actions that will lead to increased awareness and prevent this epidemic of the 21st century. it is also a good idea to focus on education and employment in the new cycle of the strategy . supporting and creating new programmes for equal opportunities and access to education, and adapting the education system and occupational structure to the labour market will not only be a way of supporting young people, but also a key element in the fight against the economic crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the implementation of an eu youth strategy aimed at setting a framework for cooperation on youth issues for the coming decade and at providing young people with more and better opportunities. member states are called upon to intensify their efforts to combat youth unemployment, to promote all forms of education and training and to increase funding for young people, all of which are vital for solving the youth issues present in the eu. i believe that this report can make a positive contribution to the fight against high rates of youth unemployment across the eu.
in writing. − i thank the rapporteur for presenting the state of play of the eu youth strategy 2010-2012. in view of the ongoing economic crisis, i believe that in the past years not enough has been done to improve the situation of young people in the labour market. the key problem is first and foremost the lack of alignment of the training process with the needs of the market. the education does not meet the market requirements and the studies do not prepare for self-employment. there is therefore a large gap between the training process and the actual demands of the labour market. i regret that no concrete action has been taken to eliminate the shortcomings and increase the efficiency of programmes that support both education and individuals. the skills acquired by young people are often not aligned with the expectations of future employers, which creates a problem of vacancies. first of all, no concrete and lasting solutions are proposed. the problem of unemployment is seen throughout europe and mainly affects young people, who often choose to migrate, thus reducing the competitiveness of their home country. the problem of lack of improvement, or even worsening, in some countries where no action is taken on youth is also noted.
in writing. - youth unemployment is a major challenge for all countries today. young people are the ones who are most affected by the crisis, and this is mainly due to contracts that are often junk contracts or contracts with no guarantee of a longer notice, so that the employee becomes unemployed practically overnight. young people often lack the security of union membership, making them the first group of victims to suffer in a crisis. on the other hand, they have serious problems finding their first job. this is due to the failure of education systems to adapt to the needs of the labour market. it is important to look at youth unemployment globally. we have two extreme examples of youth unemployment: in germany it is below 10% and in greece it is almost 60%. good practices should be exchanged, mainly in the field of vocational education and training and in the field of curriculum planning, in order to match the needs of the market. at the eu summit, 8 billion euros were allocated to actively combat unemployment, including subsidized jobs.
in writing. - i support the report by ms joanna skrzydlewska on the fight against youth unemployment. youth unemployment is already at 23 percent and in some countries it is over 50 percent. this is a worrying phenomenon and it is therefore important to take as many actions as possible to improve the situation of young people in the labour market and to facilitate their start in adult life. the european union wants to achieve this through practical solutions; skills mismatches and lack of experience must be tackled through changes in the education system and more active young people in apprenticeships and traineeships. in addition, entrepreneurship and self-employment should be promoted and young people should have access to career guidance services. it is also worth investing in learning foreign languages to increase your mobility in the labour market. i believe that the actions proposed will reduce youth unemployment and contribute to improving the quality of life of european union citizens.
in writing. - the economic crisis has shown that employment reform and a new policy in this area are necessary. i supported the report because it makes a significant contribution to finding solutions to improve the situation on the labour market. unemployment affects many people, but it is especially painful for young people. today, as many as 5.5 million people under the age of 25 are unemployed, and a person entering adulthood who cannot find a job and has no prospect of changing this situation quickly is denied the opportunity to gain the experience that is so much needed, especially at the beginning of a career. initiatives such as the youth guarantee already exist, but better coordination is needed to make the best use of the funds available and to adapt the actions to the labour market situation and the needs of young people. young people are also often unable to find work because of mismatches in qualifications, although there are job opportunities. this will also require modernising education to better match skills to labour market needs. i also think it is crucial to promote self-employment. the development of entrepreneurship is an opportunity for young people and for the european economy, because it is businesses that are its driving force. however, young people need to know how to start their own business and where to get help and information. entrepreneurship is definitely an opportunity to create new jobs and rebuild the union after the crisis.
in writing. - we haven't had statistics like this in years. in some eu countries, up to 50% of young people are unemployed. some of the blame can be placed on the crisis, but other causes must also be considered and started to be counteracted or eliminated. the structure of education needs to be changed to respond to the needs of the labour market and to allow for rapid and flexible adaptation to changing demands. it is also important to create a network of equal opportunities programmes. this is not just about people who are unable to get an education because of their financial situation, but also about making it easier for young people in rural areas to access the best schools and other cultural assets. such support must certainly be linked to increased mobility of young people, as jobs corresponding to their qualifications may be waiting for them in another country or city. another factor that contributes to economic growth and job creation for young people is the use of their fresh minds and creativity. we should create the right conditions, simplify procedures and formalities for them to be able to freely use their innovative ideas, create new companies and enterprises and thus stimulate the economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs skrzylewska's report because i believe it raises a number of important issues which can contribute to the creation of new jobs for young people. eur 8 billion has been earmarked for the youth guarantee in the new financial perspective. the member states face a huge challenge and effort to spend them effectively. every effort should be made to ensure that this instrument actually contributes to unlocking the potential of young people and matching their skills to the labour market; that this money is not wasted. i think it's appropriate to extend this initiative to people under 30. i also agree with the rapporteur that the implementation of the guarantee should not, however, in any way discourage the introduction of structural reforms. on the contrary, i believe that only profound changes in education systems and the rules for setting up and running businesses can bring about lasting change and lead to the creation of new, sustainable jobs. we need first of all tax breaks for young people and the removal of barriers to entrepreneurship. i therefore supported the amendment by mrs angelilli calling on the member states to introduce special tax incentives to promote youth employment.
in writing. - the problem of youth unemployment is a subject which is particularly close to my heart. today's vote is a call for new measures to support and help young unemployed people in their search for a job. youth unemployment has now reached very high levels and is no longer tolerable. the situation needs to be improved by coordinated action between the state and the union, by improving the school system, giving young people the opportunity to enter the world of work more professionally prepared, and by encouraging and supporting initiatives to support entrepreneurship, to maintain existing jobs and to create new ones. in this direction, the european budget can and must be a key instrument for boosting growth and employment in the eu with real added value. only through targeted investment and coordinated action will we be able to help our businesses overcome the crisis and our young people get what they are entitled to: i'm going to find a job.
in writing. - youth unemployment is a huge problem across europe today, which has been greatly exacerbated by the economic crisis. europe needs to find a solution to this problem as soon as possible. it welcomes the fact that the rapporteur has noted the link between austerity and budget cuts and youth unemployment. in addition, ms skrzydlewska presented a comprehensive report, which also covered issues such as migration and youth mobility and the role of the private sector in tackling the problem. it is also important to note that the so-called youth guarantee alone is not enough. we need a holistic strategy to tackle youth unemployment, which will include a number of new instruments. the s&ds have been fighting for more funds for this purpose, because more instruments to tackle the problem means more spending. but you have to realize that these are the expenses that will pay off in the future, like perhaps no other.
in writing. - youth unemployment in europe is showing a steady upward trend. as we know, this is due to a number of factors, not only the economic situation of individual countries, but also adverse economic conditions, an unfavourable environment for the creation of new businesses, too high labour costs and often the gap between employers' expectations and the needs of the labour market and the education of young people. there is no single recipe for solving this problem at the level of the european union because of the differences between the individual countries and the different degree of severity of the problem, as the scale of unemployment is different in poland and different in austria or sweden. it is certainly very important to change the way young people are trained, to support young people who want to start a business, and to support those entrepreneurs who give young people jobs. that is why i voted in favour of mrs skrzylewska's report.
in writing. - the statistics on the situation of young people in the labour market are very worrying. the financial crisis is deepening this recession due to the lack of financial investment to create jobs. moreover, the crisis in the eu is leading to the loss of jobs. the group most affected by job cuts is young people, with up to 40% of those employed on temporary or civil-law contracts. the social, economic and, above all, demographic costs of youth unemployment will be felt long after the crisis has passed. this will have a direct impact on low natural growth rates and member states will not be able to pay benefits for ageing populations. we need mechanisms such as the 'progress' financial instrument to promote and support the creation of young entrepreneurs and the eib's support for entrepreneurial initiatives by young people. more resources from the european social fund should be made available. equally important is investing in the education of young people by guaranteeing them preferential student loans. the most important issue is the employment of young women. this, combined with poorly managed family policies, can lead to an increasing exclusion of women from the labour market. given the scale of the problem of youth unemployment, i have decided to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on combating youth unemployment.
in writing. the situation of young people in the labour market is very difficult at present. the unemployment rate for this group is twice that of the general population, at 23%. this means that there are now more than 5.5 million young people unemployed across the european union. this long-term situation inevitably leads to social exclusion. to prevent this, action to combat youth unemployment must be coordinated with the overall anti-crisis response in the economy. the adoption by the epsco council of the youth guarantee is an important political impetus. these guarantees consist in providing young people with employment, further education, apprenticeship or traineeship. in the resolution adopted today, we decided to expand the circle of beneficiaries of this support by raising the age limit to 30 years. the priority now is to implement programmes and projects to make the most of the 6 billion euro allocated by the council. we also need initiatives in the eu to support entrepreneurship and promote self-employment. all activities aimed at developing entrepreneurship and self-initiative, and encouraging entrepreneurs to create new jobs, should be continued and supported. we therefore decided that the idea of promoting self-employment and facilitating access to start-up funding should be continued in the 2014-2020 programme for change and innovation.
in writing. − the unemployment rate among eu citizens under 25 is now already 23% or around 5.5 million people. uncertainty about tomorrow discourages young people from deciding to start a family and encourages the development of a demographic bottom-up. moreover, the lack of experience and education of young people is not in line with the requirements of the modern job market. the education system should therefore be reformed and a system of individual vocational guidance should be established, which is already available at secondary school level and based on the needs of the labour market. , the old professions and agriculture must also be restored. it should be possible to establish links between schools and workplaces by introducing training and traineeships. the lack of job opportunities condemns young people to social exclusion. the number of early school leavers is increasing. today, an estimated 14 million young people are not in school or in the workforce. particular attention should be paid to the low-educated, the disabled and ethnic minorities, whose chances of employment are even more precarious. the development and investment in international education programmes, such as erasmus plus, where the largest share of funding will be allocated to studies, international placements, training and volunteering, is also of great importance. it is also essential to maintain high standards of graduate and traineeship practice and to ensure that it is effective and practical in preparing for a specific job.
in writing. - i thank the rapporteur for her report on the fight against youth unemployment. the solutions to a common problem seem to be appropriate. member states have seen an increase in unemployment, particularly among young people, for whom there is often a lack of jobs. europe needs to take appropriate and concrete action in times of crisis. the state has an important role to play in supporting its citizens by creating new jobs, encouraging self-employment and the creation of enterprises, and supporting education and training centres, thus ensuring the smooth functioning and increased productivity of employment sectors. it is gratifying to note that young people who leave school early are not forgotten when they are offered career counselling. the aim is to reduce the gap between men and women in the labour market. there is no doubt that there is a real need to modernise education systems, which often fail to meet the requirements of the labour market. the key is to adapt to the ever-changing environment. it also stressed the need to improve the quality of and facilitate access to vocational and higher education. we must act now and invest in young people, who are the future not only of our countries but of the union as a whole.
in writing. - the report adopted today is an important signal to the member states, who are responsible for the correct implementation of one of the most important directives of recent years - the services directive. the services sector is crucial to the eu economy, as it generates over 65% of the eu's gdp. the directive allows european entrepreneurs to expand their activities to other member states' markets, which is also an important incentive to start new companies. i regret that despite the existence of a mechanism with such great potential, member states have still not implemented it properly. in times of economic difficulties, difficulties in the labour market, we cannot allow the opportunity to enter the path of development and to create new jobs to be missed. i therefore fully support the report, as it points to key problems in the implementation of this law. the key is to adopt an integrated approach to implementation. the services directive does not operate in a vacuum and, even if fully implemented, can only function properly if other related provisions, such as the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, are also fully implemented. citizens have a right to know that they are paying the price for member states' slow or inadequate implementation of eu rules. it is therefore necessary to increase transparency so that citizens, for example through national parliaments, can hold member states accountable for the state of implementation.
in writing. − the services sector generates over 65% of the eu's gdp, and also provides digital and mobile services that are changing the way the economy works. it is therefore important to start exploiting the full potential that lies within it, especially now, with rising unemployment. the commission's study on the economic impact of the services directive shows that if member states were more committed to its implementation, the overall economic benefit could be three times higher, i.e. 2,6% of gdp. the main problems are cumbersome legal form, territorial constraints, economic needs tests that hinder the operation of a business abroad, and in the case of the provision of online services, it is often difficult for consumers to purchase a product from another member state, leading to higher prices and less choice. the weak link between the services directive and other national or eu legislation also hinders job creation. the internal market information system (imi) and the solvit system would be helpful in reducing administrative formalities. the full and consistent implementation of the services directive is primarily the responsibility of the member states. this is why it is so important to work together so that countries that have successfully reformed the services sector can provide support and advice to those that are still facing this challenge.
in writing. - thank you to the rapporteur for reporting on the important subject of the internal market in services. the sector accounts for more than half (65%) of the union's gdp and is therefore a very important part of the economy. it is therefore gratifying to see that action is being taken to improve the social dimension of the legislative environment. the creation of stable jobs, where the right to equal pay, decent working conditions and workers' rights are fully respected in all member states, plays an important role. the key issue is to abandon practices such as discrimination, red tape and restrictions that only contribute to rising unemployment and a slowing economy. easier market access for smes and self-employed people also provides an opportunity to create stable jobs, foster innovation or improve competitiveness, thus contributing to a sustainable market economy. the governance of the internal market in services should also aim to improve the flow of services so as not to create internal constraints hindering cooperation and flows between eu countries. clear rules and increased accountability are the way to improve the market.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? malaysia is one of the leading economies in southeast asia. she made a quick transformation and a big jump in the rankings. our relations with this country are growing ever closer, and today the eu market, generating over eur 30 billion, is the fourth largest after china, singapore and japan. the european union is also active in the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking and counterfeiting. the public's attitude, as expressed by the high turnout in the recent democratic parliamentary elections, is also worthy of respect. nevertheless, there are still some troubling issues that we cannot ignore. persecution of christians, including attacks on churches, is especially reprehensible. the authorities in kuala lumpur must ensure the safety and enjoyment of constitutional rights of all citizens. i look forward to the continued success of multicultural malaysia in terms of transformation, particularly with regard to religious and ethnic groups, civil society and media freedom.
in writing. - in voting on the report by mr emilio menéndez del valle, i supported the preliminary draft of the eu-malaysia partnership and cooperation agreement. since 2010, negotiations have been underway to develop a document that would provide a legal basis in this area. the current shape of the agreement covers issues such as: broadening the scope of joint action in the fields of environment, technology, climate change and maritime safety. the report also noted positive developments in malaysia in the areas of counter-terrorism, money laundering and drug trafficking cooperation, as well as progress in media freedom. i think this deal could be the next big step in our relationship. i also hope that it will bring the attention of europe to the countries of south-east asia. moreover, given that malaysia is the eu's second largest trading partner among asean countries, i hope that this agreement will contribute to further development of cooperation, also in other areas.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i congratulate mr. brock on turning this debate to his advantage. president brok, since you have mentioned refugees, should we not therefore start a dialogue with neighbouring countries, for example lebanon, on the situation of these refugees? what can we do to make their lives better? should we not have such a dialogue on humanitarian grounds, so that it can be our contribution to stabilising the situation in the region or to preventing the escalation of the conflict?
mr. chairman, please! the use of chemical weapons in syria must be strongly condemned and measures taken to prevent a repetition of this crime. but the question is, what instruments do you use? is death the answer to death? as pope francis recently said, war is always a failure for mankind. in this line of reasoning, it is right to pursue other effective measures, such as the international control of chemical weapons stockpiles in syria. it would be wrong, however, if such proposals were to prove to be a false alibi for delay in any action. despite the european union's supposed common security and defence policy, the union traditionally does not speak with one voice in hot moments, such as in the case of syria. britain and germany have ruled out military intervention, and france has backed it. but we must take some effective action.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. the syrian conflict, as dramatic as it is, should not be viewed solely through a military or purely political lens. let us remember the tragedy of ordinary people - over 100,000 dead in this civil war and almost 2 million, or 10% of the country's population, as refugees. this is a real humanitarian crisis. the united nations estimates that nearly two million children have been directly affected by this cruel and dramatic civil war. there is no doubt that the use of chemical weapons cannot go unchallenged internationally and that those responsible must be held accountable sooner or later. but if there is a possibility today to avoid military action and to neutralize the chemical arsenal, we should take that opportunity. but international pressure, including the threat of military intervention, must be maintained. that is why we should support our american allies in this resolution. but our priority is humanitarian aid for refugees. the 400 million that commissioner füle offered in june may not be enough. we have to be more generous.
mr. chairman, please! for a long time, we have been presented with this cliché of black and white assessment of the situation in syria. but the situation is much more complicated. this conflict is overlaid by ethnic and, above all, religious relations and conflicts between shiites, alawites, sunnis and christians, and we know that this simple interpretation, which seems to dictate the actions of western countries, the united states or turkey, does not correspond to reality. we should always ask ourselves the question of the stabilization or destabilization that results from our actions. well, it seems that what european countries have done so far is unfortunately conducive to destabilization. i condemn what assad is doing, but i ask, will what comes after assad contribute to more stability or destabilization, will there be a greater tyrant, will there be more anarchy? we know de facto that on the other side is al-qaeda, we know that there are organizations that are killing and do not hesitate to kill more for the holy war and the islamic state that they want to introduce in syria.
mr. chairman, please! i'm sorry, but i'm not going to be able to do this. i would of course like to join in the thanks for the involvement of the european union services and the high representative herself, because it is very important that the european union acts today. there are a lot of important things that my colleagues have stressed today, of course it is important to hold accountable those responsible for the use of chemical weapons, it is important what happens next with syria. but the most important thing now is, of course, to stop this terrible war, which is taking so many lives and whose cruelty, according to a un report, is the work of assad's troops and, unfortunately, also of some of the rebels. so i think that we all in this room will support the diplomatic efforts and we should continue to do so. the security council today is obviously the place where this should happen, and it's a good test for both russia and our will and the entire international community.
in writing. commissioner ashton's speech on syria today was, as usual, moderate, general, with a familiar style: we try, we do what we can, there are many for and against, etc. in summary, the eu is looking at an increasingly facade-oriented security council, and it can't agree too much, with russia taking the lead de facto, extending the time of the relatively sober talks and giving assad time to catch his breath and sort out the strategy. kerry's meeting with lavrov tomorrow, what about the european union...? i have had a very unpleasant, intrusive feeling today that there was a spirit of helplessness in the strasbourg plenary. i believe that europe should focus on humanitarian and medical aid and on ensuring that, even under the threat of military retaliation, the warring parties respect each other's hospitals and other medical facilities. that's what i'm proposing. this may not be as much as some would like, but it seems to be the most appropriate (politically and ethically) strategy for europe at the moment.
mr. chairman, please! the egyptian conflict has escalated significantly in recent months. the mass protests of the population show that a divided society is still far from an agreement. the death toll is a testament to the fact that the situation has long since gotten out of control. of particular concern, however, is the increasing persecution of the coptic christian minority. temples are regularly set on fire and vandalized, and worshippers are subjected to constant brutal aggression by islamist militants. these circumstances are shocking given the fact that the copts are not a party to the conflict. the violent attacks on these people bear the marks of xenophobia and religious discrimination. they must bully every european. i demand that decisive action be taken to improve the situation of egyptian christians. the copts are the largest coptic community in the middle east. they are the descendants of the original egyptians, who made an unquestionable contribution to western civilization. now, faced with constant danger, they are looking to this very civilization for a helping hand. the european union, built on the foundations of tolerance and human rights, cannot fail them.
mr. chairman, please! the only way to stop the escalation of violence, to restore a sense of security to all egyptians and to find a peaceful, compromise solution to the conflict seems to be with international support. you have to be aware that the complete removal of the muslim brotherhood from political life could bring them back underground and cause radicalization. that would be dangerous, especially since the brotherhood has a very strong social base. the current government must renounce violence, reform the police, stabilize the economy, hold democratic elections. if violence continues to be a part of egyptian daily life, it will benefit the muslim brotherhood, which in turn threatens further demonstrations and escalation of violence. i thank the high representative for her commitment to date and ask for further dialogue and a strong emphasis on respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. we must demand from the current rulers the so-called minimum rule of law, i.e. no extreme measures.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. i must thank you again for your commitment and for the actions taken by the european external action service. i think i speak for everyone here, saying that if we parliamentarians can help in any way, then of course you can count on our involvement. the situation in egypt has two aspects: an internal and an external aspect. as for the internal situation, we all want egypt to be a modern, democratic state, where the state institutions operate without coercion and without this military aid. today, unfortunately, it is not. i think we should try to intensify our activities in the form of meetings, conferences, seminars. the foundations that mr. pöttering mentioned would be very useful here, but of course they have to be accepted by the egyptian state. as far as the outside situation is concerned, there's only one thing. of course, for peace in the region, we need a stable egypt.
mr. chairman, please! despite huge spending during the crisis on a common security and defence policy, it is not working. in the first paragraph of the report on the union's military structures presented today, we note with growing concern the union's insufficient capacity to respond effectively and in a timely manner to international crises. thirdly, we regret that the recent operations in libya and mali have shown that no progress has been made towards a genuine common security and defence policy. this trend is also confirmed by the mixed reaction on syria. while britain and germany opposed military intervention in syria, france declared its participation in the military mission. it is clear that the draft of the common security and defence policy is only a paper document and that no armored vehicles are needed to implement it.
mr. chairman, please! many documents have been produced on european security and defence policy, although, on the other hand, as one expert from the think tank in brussels put it, 'so many words and so many documents about nothing'. there is a problem with european security and defence policy, but i think it is that we are not at the end of the road, but at the beginning. the north atlantic alliance is a proven structure that has been around for many, many years. the european security and defence policy is today de facto an idea, an idea without structures, without an army to stand behind all the documents we have produced. the reports by mrs gomes and mr giannakou, on which we are going to vote, reflect the views of the majority of the political groups. they were supported in committee by the majority of the political groups and give an idea of what the majority of the political groups think this common security and defence policy should look like. i agree with mr van orden, and of course with colleagues danjean and gahler, and probably all the members of our sede subcommittee, that we should really avoid duplication. i would ask mr van orden to read our document, the epp document which we published a few days ago, in which we state very clearly that we want to avoid duplication between the structures of the union and nato at all costs and that we are in favour of cooperation between these structures as far as possible.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the fact that it is not possible to conduct an effective common security and defence policy unless we overcome two constraints. the first constraint is that the european union does not always have one efficient headquarters for the operation. this headquarters should be a permanent component of the european external action service. the union has a number of institutions and arrangements which are fragmented these institutions need to be integrated. and the second problem is that we continue to maintain the fiction of joint battle groups. none of these groups have been used in any situation so far. i think we should have a much smaller number of these groups, but of a nature that allows them to be used for rapid action.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, just a few closing remarks on the reports. we all agree that maritime security matters, and hand-in-hand with the commission and member states we are working hard on a comprehensive strategy for this. much has been done already. much has been achieved, the most important being the changes in mindsets, and managed initiatives are ongoing on external dimensions. the horn of africa provides viable proof that we can progress only when we seek comprehensiveness and synergies based on sound and prudent strategies. this is why we work on the european union maritime security strategy and this is very important. it is also important to streamline efforts and mitigate duplications. this is about capabilities, but in a much broader sense than just military means. understanding that is also important. we need your support for this work. therefore i am particularly grateful for the report presented by ana gomes whom i thank again for the quality of the work and the value that it brings. your considerations will foster our work and will raise public awareness. it is also very important on the complexities, on the critical issues at sea. in the same vein, i welcome and appreciate once again ms giannakou’s work on the eu’s military structures and the possible way ahead. military aspects of csdp, and defence in general, form a major part of our daily activities. our quest for comprehensiveness will not achieve the desired results if we underestimate this powerful – although often revered as a last resort – crisis management tool. security and defence go hand in hand and they both rely not just on adequate strategies but also on credible capabilities. the current economic and financial environment does not favour member states’ efforts in the defence domain. we all know about that. therefore i also believe that we will be much more efficient if we develop further collaborative opportunities in order to preserve and enhance the required defence capabilities. there were a lot of comments about interaction with nato. let me also add that nato and the eu are doing this in transparency, trying to avoid duplications and to promote comprehensiveness and complementarity. this is not an easy task. it is also dependent on our political will and on taking a rational approach, and what we do in the eu will also help nato. it will not compete. simply we will interact when appropriate. it is important that we all know this. just one word on finances because comments were also made on this – and very appropriate comments – because this is probably really the main challenge facilitating csdp action. with regard to civilian csdp missions, work is ongoing to improve the financial framework, inter alia by looking into the applicability and flexibility of various eu instruments, such as the instrument for stability, the european development fund or follow-up action under article 28 of the treaty. we achieved considerable progress already throughout last year by establishing a permanent csdp warehouse and shared services centre and in the use of isf. on the military side we are also looking into the funding of battle groups. extending current categories of costs eligible for common funding could be considered for this, either during an operation, during a standby period or for training of the eu battle groups concerned. so indeed there is a lot on our agenda and once again, let me thank you very much for your valuable contributions to this.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, thank you for this timely opportunity to discuss european union policy towards belarus and let me appreciate the hard work and coordination by rapporteur paleckis to present this valuable report. i believe that there is broad convergence between our analysis and visions. your recommendations will help our further deliberations on how to approach the difficult situation we face with this neighbouring country. the contrast between our dynamic relations with some eastern european partnership countries and the longstanding stagnation of our relations with belarus is stark. this regrettable situation is of belarus’s own doing. the european union maintains its offer to belarus but it is a conditional one. political prisoners must be released and rehabilitated and there must be progress on human rights. the ball remains in belarus’s court, but i am afraid that there is little progress to report. the last time a political prisoner was given early release was september last year. seven political prisoners are still in prison and we are receiving most worrying reports concerning their detention conditions, including the lack of access to lawyers and restricted contacts with their families. it is also greatly disturbing that on the european continent we still have a country where a moratorium on the death penalty is apparently far away. and the petty harassment of civil society activists and the oppression of regime critics continue unabated. so we have no choice but to maintain our policy of targeted, restrictive measures. european union sanctions continue to remind the belarusian authorities that their actions violating basic principles to which belarus adhered in the context of the eastern partnership have consequences. similarly, the lack of respect for human rights and basic freedoms still keeps belarus far from membership of the council of europe. against this background we will shortly launch our annual review of the restrictive measures which expire in october. we focus our efforts and find ways of supporting the belarusian people. during the last two years the european union has strengthened its assistance and engagement with belarusian civil society and with the belarusian public at large. in particular, the european union has intensified its dialogue with civil society, including via the european dialogue on modernisation. this dialogue has the potential to become a channel for communication, both with wider belarusian society and with authorities. we are working towards this objective with the belarusian foreign ministry and, of course, with the support of belarusian civil society. since foreign minister makey’s appointment, minsk has taken a number of diplomatic steps to improve relations with the european union. these include, for example, the re-opening of the swedish embassy in minsk. we welcome this and, within the constraints we face, we are doing what we can to enhance our cooperation in certain areas. these include, for example, our technical dialogues on economic and financial issues and also the environment. however, it is regrettable that after two years there has been no reply from belarusian authorities to our offer to launch negotiations for a visa facilitation agreement. of course, as soon as belarus takes the necessary steps, we can resume work on our joint interim plan, paving the way for the full participation of belarus in the eastern partnership. we will look forward to that day and we stand ready to offer our full support for a comprehensive reform process in belarus.
on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is a fact that belarus has been the most problematic participant in the eastern partnership since its inception. the reasons for this state are obvious. first, the belarusian political system is completely undemocratic. this is perhaps the only case on the european continent where the political opposition has not even one representative in the 110-seat parliament. finally, unfortunately - as the commissioner said - it is the only country in europe where political prisoners are still being held, including prominent activists such as human rights defender aleś białacki and the current president of the republic of belarus, mr mikołaj statkiewicz, who is running against him. and those who have recently been released have not been released because the authorities' attitude has changed, but simply because their sentences have ended. but that doesn't mean we should stop trying to change the internal situation in this country through our policies - without forgetting our values - in order to find real ways to get closer to realizing those values. if there is even a shadow of a chance to free political prisoners, it is worth taking that chance. we hope that the eastern partnership summit in vilnius will provide such an opportunity, and that is why, as the epp, we will support the proposal negotiated and proposed by mr paleckis, believing that this time the belarusian authorities will not waste the opportunity that the european parliament and the european union are giving, are creating on the occasion of the eastern partnership summit in vilnius.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have read mr paleckis' report, i have listened to you, and i have the impression that - although we feel this way, we just do not say it - we are ashamed of what is happening to belarus. so many smart people in this room, so many rich countries, so many great ideas and programs, and we're not able to deal with a dictatorship in the middle of europe. a small dictatorship, but a menace. and then one word comes to mind: visa, visa, visa. this is the obsession of the european union and the daily bread of some officials, but they limit us. they're the ones that keep these people in lukashenka's cage. we have to open belarus and lukashenko will end up alone, and not give any political concessions. in addition to visas, visas, visas, you have to recite here the names of those who are imprisoned for politics. that should be our first condition of any conversation. now, when we invite the belarusian representatives to vilnius, all we have to do is tell them these names, pointing out that closing this case will open up discussion on other topics. and then, step by step, break down all the bars in belarus. it's possible, we just need to rethink this tactic, but one thing we can't let go of is those who are in prison. and one thing we must not forget, we are prisoners of our own visas, visas, visas.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. ladies and gentlemen! belarus is important to us for very simple reasons: it is our neighbour, it is also a european country. and we want our neighbors to do their best. it's not just our idealism. we want belarus to do well, because a stable, secure, developing belarus is good for europe. that's why we're so determined to find a way to improve the situation in belarus. i thank mr paleckis for his participation in this effort and his open-minded approach to the recommendations. and it was not an easy task, because we can actually say that the ball is on the belarusian side. our expectations are not, in my view, excessive, because they are directly derived from values that we consider to be universal and inalienable. the commissioner said that too. this is non-negotiable because we will not compromise our core principles. i hope that belarus will open its eyes, see the ball in its half of the field and make decisions that will allow it to get out of the self-isolation that belarus has funded for itself.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. all the speeches, including those of the commissioner, have been devoted to the subject of political prisoners. you pointed out that the prerequisite for any talks with the lukashenka regime is the release of political prisoners and, as you stressed, their rehabilitation. thank you so much for that. it is true that in any conversation with lukashenko we should remember the shame that pavel kowal spoke about in this room. the commissioner and filip kaczmarek also stressed this. although the ball is in belarus' court, we must do everything in our power to erase this shame from ourselves. one of those elements is the constant, permanent, consistent demand for the release of political prisoners and their rehabilitation. the efforts of some meps overcoming political divisions have led to an agreement on the nomination of belarusian political prisoners for the sakharov prize. it will therefore be an opportunity to express once again our opposition to what is happening in belarus, which i very warmly encourage.
madam president! the opening up of belarus to the west and the development of an open civil society must be one of the priorities of the union's foreign policy. the more significant and good news is that more than half of the belarusian population already believes that the union should play a greater role in belarus. the belarusian authorities have become more active towards lithuania. this may be another attempt to break the international isolation of belarus and the regime and to resume dialogue with the union. although minsk is trying to return to a strategy of laureling between the west and russia, it does not seem that lukashenko is ready to release and rehabilitate all political prisoners, and without that we should not lift the sanctions against minsk. therefore, to effect real change in belarus, we need to pursue a two-pronged policy negotiate with minsk to increase civil rights and support the opposition. when minsk releases ales bialacki, we should support free media, such as tv belsat; when minsk reopens the osce office, we can support the opposition from the fund for democracy; and when minsk normalizes the situation with the union of poles in belarus, we can lift visa restrictions against this country.
madam president! i agree with the rapporteur and the previous speakers that it is worth introducing unilateral visa facilitation and lowering the cost of visas, as the 60 euro amount is not affordable for most belarusians. i believe that reducing or abolishing short-stay visa fees, especially for young people, will have a positive impact on their mobility, help to combat social isolation, contribute to understanding the social and economic forms needed, and promote the values on which the european union is based. i also share the view that expenditure on the development of civil society should be increased, and here the european endowment for democracy is an important instrument to be used, which was created precisely to open up new opportunities for cooperation with third countries.
madam president! everyone in this room agrees that the policy towards belarus is designed for many years, perhaps even many decades. we don't have a good way to solve the biggest problems quickly. policies designed to last for many years can be effective in two areas: the first is media and public outreach, and the second is education. in both fields, we operate in a schematic, uncreative, unimaginative way. there are newspapers printed in belarus for independent money, whatever that means, or newspapers printed in russia and distributed through courier agencies. but they are, and they work, and they give us the real picture of what's going on in this country. there's the internet, which is not very engaging to the participants and the audience. and finally there are two insanely important institutions - the belsat tv and the belarusian radio. all these media outlets should be more present, more accountable for what they do and more influential in shaping the european union's policy towards belarus.
blue-card question. – mr scholz, i have a question. do you realise that the russians have ignored the neighbourhood policy since the beginning? russia has been totally outside it and has never cooperated with us. the possibility of involvement in this policy has been offered many times. so you totally misunderstand who initiated the aggression in this particular case. do you appreciate that?
madam president, russian pressure is now turning into sanctions, as we see in the case of moldova. action is needed and we have to move beyond descriptions and diagnosis. who will defend our partner countries from the east? let me put lenin’s question: if not we, then who; if not now, then when? from an eu perspective, our agreements are being contested and questioned by russia. at the same time, we owe our partners solidarity, and we should defend and protect them. but, again from our perspective, we should defend our own sovereign choice as to who are partners are, and our own neighbourhood policy. russia is challenging not just this parliament but the eu. we have to admit that we are on a collision course with russia. it is russia that has taken a confrontational course, and we need a contingency plan. our proposals are set out in a draft motion for a resolution negotiated and agreed by five political groups: a text that offers political guidance to the commission and the external action service. we should respond in seven ways. firstly, with diplomatic pressure on russia: we should convoke the ambassador. secondly, with diplomatic support for our eastern partners and, thirdly, with political pressure on russia, putting the matter very high on the agenda of bilateral talks. fourthly, we should help the countries under pressure by delivering energy, opening our market to their goods and building infrastructure. fifthly, we should retaliate: if russia puts an embargo on moldovan wine, let us put an embargo on russian spirits. sixthly, the commission should no longer refrain from submitting a complaint against gasprom. and lastly, let us lodge a complaint with the wto because what russia is doing is a clear violation of its rules, and let us assist our partners in doing likewise. if we do not do these things – if we lose in a dispute on our own doorstep – then let us stop talking about the eu as a global actor. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr. minister, i cannot disagree with you. everything you said was absolutely acceptable and worthy of support. i just have one technical observation. are you sure the words "if not us, then who?" if not now, when? or was it gorbachev?
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. no, i'm not sure. i think it was lenin. maybe the historian should have a say here.
madam president! it's a difficult subject. i see the atmosphere is good. i just wanted to put it in simple terms. the european union has presented a friendly, good offer to the countries of the east, the former satellites of the soviet union, its shareholders. we said, "come with us". we have invited, without threat, the building of democracy and freedom and we have spent a lot of money on this. our partners responded in different ways, but a lot of people believed in this offer and many started to build this democracy. it's different in ukraine, it's different in moldova, it's different in georgia. and russia said no. russia said they didn't like it. and that's the tragedy of this situation, that russia has simply accepted the role of arbitrator in this case, in someone else's case, not their own. today, the political position of the european union is being contested. will we be blackmailed by wine, cognac, gas, or can we effectively promote our values? before we answer that question, let's remember the millions of people from the cold maidan, let's remember the people who created the carnation revolution, and let's remember the millions of people in the capitals of the countries that are part of the eastern partnership, because they are waiting today for what we say. don't just look at the dignitaries, look at these people.
madam president! russian politics has brought us together in this chamber, which we haven't for a long time. but that's not surprising. this was the policy of russia, which was to be expected, this was the experience of ukraine after the orange revolution, this was the experience of poland, which supported the orange revolution. now we are faced with the question of what kind of russia we want. if we want a russia that treats its neighbors like this, then let's stop with the diplomatic statements, let's get together and shout at russia. i'm sure that'll amuse a lot of strategists in the kremlin. they'll be laughing like crazy. but we will also be watched by our partners in the capitals of the eastern partnership countries. to show them and their communities that we can do something, we need to bring moldovan wine here. i say to my predecessor, we must show that the union can afford to take action. we have to remove the trade barriers and we have to remove the visa barriers. if we do this today, before the eastern partnership summit, if we show in some small way, even as a gesture, that we can afford to make a move, that we can afford to sign an agreement two days earlier, it will have an effect. that's the kind of gesture that's expected today.
madam president! president putin rightly saw the eastern partnership countries' adoption of european standards as a threat to russia's authoritarian model of power. if the association agreement makes ukraine more democratic and less corrupt, it will be difficult to convince the russians credibly that european values are not for them. many doubted that the ukrainians wanted to be associated with the european union. today, they are paying a heavy economic price for their european dream. everyone from the oligarchs to the workers and farmers. and it could be worse, because the kremlin is threatening the ukrainians with a full-scale trade war if vilnius succeeds. and what is the european union doing in the face of the violation of international law and the pressure on sovereign states by president putin's team? it is a soft supporter of the eastern partnership countries and an even more soft critic of the kremlin. where's the practical? where is the opening of the european market to ukrainian and moldovan companies, to which putin is closing the door? where's the resumption of financial aid to ukraine, which was frozen a while ago? and where is the reward to the ukrainians and moldovans for their commitment to european values by announcing visa-free travel? the european parliament will call on the council tomorrow to implement the provisions of the dcfta provisionally, immediately after the signing of the association agreement with ukraine, before the eu ratifies the agreement. i hope that the council will not shy away from this decision, the implementation of which will open up an opportunity for the modernisation and democratisation of ukraine and will create facts made in ukraine which will also have a positive impact on russia.
madam president! almost all the arguments have been dropped. i am convinced that tomorrow we will vote in the majority to support what commissioner füle has said and what the european commission would like, including our statement. i would like to add one important historical argument. twenty-some years ago, 10 countries in central and eastern europe (these countries are now members of the european union) decided to change their system from autocracy to democracy, to free markets. the citizens of these countries are happy with the changes today, and despite the crisis, most of them believe that the current system is better, that they do not want to go back to the old system. that is what we are proposing to the countries of central and eastern europe. it wasn't easy back then, and there were pressures. we had the european union and the united states behind us. i want to emphasize that very strongly. it was also about military cooperation, not just economic and diplomatic. i have a feeling the pressure from the united states is less now. it's good that we're alone in this field, because this is europe, so today we must act decisively. even more decisive than the ones taken by the european union twenty years ago to give us free choice. let us fight for this free choice, because this is a great opportunity for all of europe.
madam president! jerzy buzek is right that we are left today as if alone, that the united states for its geopolitical interests must make deals with the russian federation. we also have a duty to defend human rights and there is a link between the one and the other - between the pressure on the eastern partnership countries and the pressure on civil society in russia, on ordinary citizens. it can be proved politically that if a country is allowed to oppress its own people, sooner or later it will oppress its neighbors. that's why i have a question for you, commissioner. you said in the last debate that you were against a boycott of the ice hockey world championship in belarus. i don't share that opinion, but i can understand it. would you be able to accept and consider a political boycott, that is, the absence of union politicians from the championships or the winter olympics in sochi, as meaningful? in poland we started an action called olympic shames which is not to destroy this sporting event but to provoke a political boycott. i'd like an answer.
in writing. – just a few months before the vilnius summit, the eastern partnership remains at the crossroads. our eastern neighbours have become hostages to a choice which should not be there in the first place. in just the last few months, in warning them against associating with the eu, russia has engaged in a mini trade war with ukraine, banned the export of agricultural products from moldova and convinced armenia to join its customs union. despite these domestic economic issues, we cannot turn our back on our eastern partners, especially when they are being put under great pressure by russia. i would appeal to the european commission and to the lithuanian presidency not to miss the chance provided by the eastern partnership summit in vilnius to sign – and even provisionally implement – the eu-ukraine association agreement, and to initial association agreements with our other eastern partners. this is an opportunity for real change. the eu should stand ready to support those who are being subjected to pressure. we should work with our eastern neighbours to build a zone of prosperity and stability in the region and we should show them the benefits of their association with the eu.
in writing. the key to european eastern policy is to deepen economic, social and political integration with the eastern partnership countries. ukraine is now on the threshold of a great opportunity, which is the signing of an association agreement with the european union. this agreement would open up new opportunities for the ukrainian economy and bring closer integration with a united europe not only for ukraine but also for other countries that are looking to brussels with hope. for this opportunity to come true, we must not only demand that certain problems that stand in the way of integration be settled, but also defend the right of each country to self-determination. russia's attempts to put pressure on ukraine must be strongly condemned, as they strike at the very heart of the eastern partnership, and our failure to react could be interpreted by moscow as tacit approval of this type of behaviour. at this stage of preparations for the signing of the agreement (on the free trade zone), we must firmly defend our credibility if we want to be a partner for ukraine and not just a bad uncle who demands a lot without giving anything in return. i therefore call for a resolution condemning the pressure exerted by russia on ukraine to turn it off the path of progress.
mr. chairman, please! despite the repeated amendments to the treaties, the european union still has competences that are still shared with the member states in the fields of employment and public health. many member states remain reluctant to intervene at community level in this area. in this context, the issues of health and safety at work are a very good example of how joint action at european level, which has been taking place since 1978, is possible and desirable, mainly through the use of non-binding instruments. a good example is the european strategy for safety and health at work 2007-2012, which has made a significant contribution to the proper implementation of european legislation and to the improvement and simplification of existing legislation. it is therefore necessary to continue the work in this area in the period 2013-2020. it is therefore surprising that the european commission has not taken any decisive action to develop a new strategy. action on occupational safety and health is essential if we are to achieve the europe 2020 target of 75% employment for the 20-64 age group. in view of the trends associated with an ageing population and the need to extend the working life of workers, we should prepare a set of actions at european level for member states to adapt workplaces and working conditions to the needs of people aged 50+. joint preventive action is also necessary for workers. this has an undeniable impact on the well-being of workers and, consequently, on the quality and productivity of their work. e action aimed at young people is also necessary to prepare them for a long working life. moreover, technological advances are also posing challenges year after year, which undoubtedly have an impact on safety in the workplace. all these issues need to be addressed in the european strategy for the coming years. the european commission has recognised on several occasions that the community strategy for health and safety at work 2007-12 has had positive effects across europe and that there are still a number of challenges to be addressed. why has the strategy for 2007-2020 not yet been developed? as i have already mentioned, it is essential to achieve the desired level of employment in the european union and the member states.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. on behalf of the european people's party, i would like to express my deep gratitude to mr diamandouros for the work he has done over the past few years. the committee on petitions produced a report which left no doubt that you were a really great european ombudsman. on the one hand, you have increased the efficiency and transparency of the european administration, and on the other hand, you have introduced changes, innovations, and have tried to improve the way in which you respond to citizens' complaints. it's not always possible in the administration to combine care for the substance with the introduction of innovation, change, and you have succeeded. i have also followed your work when i was a member of the non-governmental sector and then here in the european parliament, and you are truly a model civil servant, a model of how to perform this function. the creation of a system for responding quickly to citizens' complaints was a success. it also covers the initiation of proceedings, but also, very importantly, the provision of information needed to understand many issues, because this is where citizens have the most difficulty in understanding the law, how to deal with many issues of the functioning of the european institutions. you have initiated a number of proceedings yourself, as the commissioner has already mentioned, for example on the protection of the public interest in connection with the work on vienna airport. the members of the ppe and the committee on petitions particularly appreciate the five principles on the civil service in the european union that you have adopted. we emphasized this in our report. the five principles are: commitment to the union, integrity, objectivity, respect for others and transparency. there's no time to list your other merits. thank you very much, and i'm sure mrs. o'reilly will be a fantastic spokesperson as well, and will continue the traditions you've established in this place. (laughter) (applause)
mr. chairman, please! i was saddened to hear of the decision of professor diamandouros to resign as european ombudsman, who for the last decade has been a pillar of the cooperation between the ombudsman and the committee on petitions, has worked for the transparency of procedures and has made a significant contribution to better informing citizens about the full exercise of their rights. in the last year alone, the ombudsman dealt with almost 2,500 complaints of maladministration and provided information in more than 20,000 cases. of the 465 ongoing investigations, 390 were successfully closed, an increase of 23% compared to 2011. the number of requests for information has decreased, which is a testament to the usefulness of the ombudsman's interactive guide. the number of complaints submitted via the website increased by 67% compared to all complaints received in the previous year. it is worth noting that the number of complaints lodged by citizens outside the ombudsman's remit was last year at its lowest level in ten years. however, the report shows that access to documents of the eu institutions and the transparency of certain procedures are still insufficient, given that as many as 22% of closed investigations were related to this. the increase in the number of cases has also led to an increase in the average duration of the investigation procedure by one month compared to 10 months in 2011, which indicates the need for further improvements in the activities carried out. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate once again the achievements of the last ten years for the good administration of the european union and i hope that the institution of the european ombudsman will continue to improve the procedures for the full enjoyment of the rights of the citizens of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! ladies and gentlemen! if i may, i'd like to join the one voice that dominates this room today. i wanted to thank mr. diamandouros for his work. the ombudsman is a very sensitive institution. to sum up your work, it should be noted that your work was above all constructive. the ombudsman's job is to connect citizens, to listen to their problems, but also to work towards making the eu institutions more transparent. this, as well as helping citizens to find their way around our bureaucracy, is extremely important. so, mr. diamandouros, once again, i want to thank you and wish you all the best.
mr. chairman, please! i join my colleagues in expressing their joy at your recovery and wish you good health for the future. the report on crossborder collective bargaining and transnational social dialogue, which is being discussed today, and which proposes the introduction of an optional legal framework for the functioning of european business agreements, casts doubt on the added value of such a possible legal intervention. i am reminded of the issue of corporate social responsibility, which was discussed six months ago, and which is another example of a bottom-up corporate initiative, on which we want to impose top-down principles and a legal framework. the number of transnational enterprise agreements is increasing year by year, which is undoubtedly a positive sign in the context of international social dialogue. it seems to me that the introduction of optional, and even more so mandatory, legal solutions to them may discourage entrepreneurs from taking such action. i would therefore like to stress that before we take any legislative initiative on this subject, we should consult with the stakeholders and analyse whether the consequences of legislative action will not lead to a limitation of this emerging phenomenon among multinational companies.
mr president, the oral amendment which i am proposing stems from the fact that in the original version we mentioned allusions to the possibility of pressure on moldova through the wine trade. this wine embargo has already happened, so the intention is to update the wording. therefore in the third line of recital b i propose to delete the words ‘allusions to the possibility of increased pressure on moldova through’, leaving ‘… ukraine’s exports, an export ban on the moldovan wine industry’. so, we propose deleting from ‘allusions’ to ‘through’ and adding after ‘ban on’, ‘the moldovan’ before ‘wine’ – the intention being simply to update in accordance with the facts. then in the third line from the bottom of recital b we propose to replace the wording ‘intensify their cooperation with’ by ‘join’ followed by ‘the russian-led customs union’. so we are deleting here in two places, adding ‘the moldovan’ and replacing the words ‘intensify their cooperation with’ by ‘join’, which is just a factual correction.
mr. chairman, please! i am glad that the european parliament adopted my report on youth unemployment yesterday by a large majority. this is an important message for young europeans. we recognise the dramatic situation of young unemployed people, we propose specific solutions and we call on the commission and the member states to take concrete action. the need to implement the guarantee quickly and at the same time to increase the age of those eligible to 30 years, to facilitate the creation of new jobs for small and medium-sized enterprises, to develop a quality traineeship framework by the commission, to improve the employment services and the eures portal are the most important demands adopted in the report. the report also focuses on reforms of education systems to better align curricula with current and future labour market needs and to promote vocational training.
mr. chairman, please! the situation of young people in the labour market is undoubtedly difficult. the unemployment rate of young people, including university graduates, is on average more than twice as high as that of the general population. young people are also at a much higher risk of redundancy than other groups. these people often take up work on so-called junk contracts, with virtually no legal protection. the unemployment figures published each month must be alarming and compelling to take action. one of the instruments remains occupational mobility. young people are more willing to take up employment in another country, but often face administrative obstacles, such as problems with the recognition of qualifications. removing these obstacles requires a particular commitment from the european institutions. however, the benefits of obliging states to introduce and extend the youth guarantee are doubtful. we're going to increase jobs more by making it easier for entrepreneurs to do business... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! the continued expansion of the internal market in services is one of the key objectives of community policy. it's good for growth, good for jobs. systematic efforts should be made to include new forms of services in the directive, while removing barriers that still exist. smart management of the single market for services is essential to increase transparency and accountability. in this respect, it should be regularly monitored for competitiveness, economic impact and its own integration status. the amendment must be accompanied by a too broad interpretation by the member states of the provisions allowing national restrictions. the desire to provide services in another country of the union cannot necessitate a change in the business model of the undertaking concerned. the removal of unjustified restrictions is therefore essential. i am a constant supporter of the development of the digital single market. it is a major contributor to innovation and the development of new.... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. − in today's vote i supported the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2012. according to article 2 of the ep decision establishing the institution of the european ombudsman, the role of the ombudsman is to contribute to the detection of maladministration in the activities of the union institutions and bodies and to make recommendations with a view to putting an end to it. mr nikiforos diamandouros served two terms in office and made a significant contribution to raising standards of respect for civil rights. in this capacity, he organised information campaigns, focused on promotion and transparency of the activities of officials of the eu institutions, which was reflected in, among other things, a guide for officials on the application of good practices. the activities that led to the creation of the office of ombudsman in turkey are also noteworthy. thanks in part to the support of mr nikiforos diamandouros, the office has been functioning since march 2013. i would like to express my appreciation for the work of mr nikiforos diamandouros and, on the occasion of his departure, my best wishes for his future career.
in writing. − i voted for the proposed amendment to the visa regulation concerning third countries. following a ‘discriminatoryʼ visa requirement from a third country, the commission would have a two-year period in which to try and persuade the third country to give up this requirement. at the end of this period, if the third country has not changed its position, the commission will automatically issue a delegated act to reintroduce temporarily a visa requirement for citizens from that third country visiting the eu. in addition, if the eu grants visa-free travel to citizens from third countries, this can now be temporarily suspended when serious problems occur, such as a sudden influx of people from those countries overstaying their visa-free period.
in writing. − the eu's principles of reciprocity and community-based visa policy are not fully respected. the issue of immigration regulation is one of the pillars of national security, but it cannot be allowed to justify unjustified and unequal treatment of eu member states by third countries. eu citizenship entitles all nationals of the member states to be treated on the same basis. the regulation on third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the eu's external borders will allow a response and real pressure to be exerted on countries currently breaching the reciprocity clause. this problem concerns central european countries, including the us maintaining visa requirements for poles, despite poland meeting the criteria for visa-free travel (especially given the fact that negotiations on an eu-us free trade agreement are currently underway). the issue of the czech citizens who have been deprived of their right to stay in canada without a visa since 2009 also remains unresolved. in line with the principle of reciprocity in visa policy, i decided to vote in favour of the proposal on third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the eu's external borders.
in writing. − the collapse of lehman brothers in 2008, which evolved into the worst financial crisis in 80 years, demonstrated above all the need for better coordination. back in 2008 there were 27 different regulatory banking authorities relying on national rules and safety mechanisms. coordination between the systems existed; however it did not prove sufficient to respond to the crisis the eu has since endured. the understanding that an integrated financial framework is essential for the eu’s recovery and economic stability led to proposals to establish a european banking union. one important element of the union is the european banking authority (eba), which falls under the pillar of the single supervisory mechanism (ssm). created in 2011, the eba works to ensure consistent regulation and supervision of the eu’s banking sector by harmonising rules for financial institutions throughout the eu. based on the inter-institutional agreement, the current report asks that the tasks, powers and capacities of the eba be reinforced and adapted to the ecb being the new european supervisor. this will ensure better accountability and transparency in the eu’s banking sector. the adoption of the report today is a positive step towards realising a fully-fledged banking union, therefore i supported the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution by mrs edith bauer on equal pay for men and women for equal work or work of equal value. despite significant changes in gender equality, the issue of the pay gap remains unresolved. the problem of wage inequality persists throughout the european union and is even worsening in some member states. the draft resolution calls for support for member states in combating this phenomenon. a reduction of the wage gap by at least 5 percentage points per year would allow the problem to be completely eliminated by 2020. equal pay would bring numerous social and economic benefits. this would, among other things, contribute to improving the economic situation not only of women but also of society as a whole by increasing economic growth. i believe that working to end the gender pay gap will be a great step towards full equality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliamentʼs resolution on the application of the principle of equal pay for male and female workers for equal work or work of equal value (2013/2678(rsp)). in so doing, i hope to limit the disparity in the pay men and women receive for the same work. while i firmly believe that people should earn what they are worth or their earnings should be based on merit or experience, gender should not be a factor. sadly however, progress in narrowing the gender pay gap is extremely slow and in some member states the gap has even widened. despite the significant body of legislation in force for almost 40 years, the actions taken and resources spent, the gender pay gap is still a persistent problem and currently stands at 16.2 % across the eu (disparity at eu level was 17.7 % in 2006, 17.6 % in 2007, 17.4 % in 2008, 16.9 % in 2009 and 16.4 % in 2010). thus different factors need to be considered and addressed properly, such as differences in activity and employment rates, in wage structures, in the composition of the workforce and in remuneration, as well as other macroeconomic and institutional factors.
in writing. −the security of the virtual space is very important for its proper functioning. meanwhile, cyber attacks are becoming more serious and more complex, threatening the security of users and causing economic losses. the union's cybersecurity strategy 'open, secure and protected cyberspace' aims to prevent and respond to disruptions and attacks as effectively as possible. this strategy aims to promote values such as freedom and democracy and ensure the secure growth of the digital economy. member states have already adopted national cybersecurity strategies this year, but fragmentation can be inefficient in some areas. the resolution therefore stresses the need to create a single market for cybersecurity. information systems in the european union are highly interconnected. the internet is a global tool, which means that most cyber-attacks are cross-border in nature and can threaten the proper functioning of the internal market and undermine consumer confidence in the digital single market. the resolution calls, inter alia, for action to raise awareness and educate europeans about cybersecurity, and the organisation of european cybersecurity month will be a great initiative.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution that was drafted in response to the communication on the cybersecurity strategy for the european union. it focuses on cyber-resilience, industrial and technological resources, cybercrime, cyber-defence, international policy and implementation. among other topics, the report discusses combined leadership and raising awareness among citizens about personal security, all of which are instrumental in combating cybersecurity threats.
in writing. − digital technologies can contribute to economic growth, but to be able to use them, action is needed to develop a knowledge-based economy. the digital market remains fragmented, there is a lack of cooperation between public authorities, cybercrime is on the rise, there is a lack of investment. the european digital agenda underlines the need to take action to address these challenges. the digital single market is an important aspect of the internal market, necessary for its full functioning. the resolution therefore calls for the development of the digital single market to be a central focus of eu action. a number of aspects should be considered in this context. for example, roaming charges have already been reduced by almost 70% and further reductions are crucial to support innovative products and services. however, this should not lead to an increase in telecommunications costs for customers or an unjustified burden for companies. broad access to high-speed internet connections is necessary to enable e-commerce to grow faster. telecommunications also represent a significant opportunity for young people and smes. the figures show that the number of ict workers is now 4 million and growing by 3% a year. this should therefore be seen as a potential for job creation, also in the context of self-employment.
in writing. − the digital economy can help to combat unemployment in times of crisis, as well as boost profits from other sectors. in an era of continuous technological progress, with an increasing impact on economic and social development, and with more and more people using the internet, it is important to meet the 'digital generation' and to raise the targets of the current digital agenda. it is estimated that by 2020 there will be 5 billion devices connected to the internet, and by the end of 2017, global data traffic will increase 15-fold. therefore, as data rates on broadband increase, the union cannot be left behind - it will require more new networks, more capacity on existing fixed networks as well as on mobile networks. as we develop the network and the transmission of data, we must also not forget to protect our data on the network from being accessed by unwanted persons. incidents of cybersecurity breaches are increasingly common, becoming more serious, complex and cross-border in nature. these incidents can cause serious damage to safety and significant economic losses. it is good that the eu has made progress towards better protecting citizens from cybercrime, including by establishing a european cybercrime centre and presenting a legislative proposal on attacks on information systems.
mr. chairman, please! the conflict between the syrian government and its own people has already claimed more than 100,000 lives. the deplorable use of chemical weapons cannot go unanswered. the syrian regime is also a serious threat to neighbouring countries, including european countries. the international community must do everything possible to prevent the conflict from escalating to neighbouring states. the priority is to stop damascus from using weapons of mass destruction again. president assad's announcement that he will allow the monitoring and accession to the chemical weapons convention gives hope for a change. however, this announcement should be taken with caution. the increasing stratification and political and military diversification of the opposition limits the effectiveness of foreign support and the possibility of forming a stable alternative government. al-qaida-affiliated terrorist organisations are active in the country. their fighters have recently pacified the historic city of malula, inhabited by the population... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation in syria today because i believe that the european parliament should send a clear signal that the european community condemns the mass murder of civilians by chemical weapons. the proven use of chemical weapons against civilians was a crossing of a line that should never have been crossed, a violation of international law, a war crime and a crime against humanity, which requires us to have a clear and coherent response, not excluding any deterrent measures. we also call in this resolution for the continuation of the humanitarian aid commitments that are and will be increasingly needed by syrian refugees.
in writing. today, after three years of fighting, syria is just a geographical region on the map. a ruined economy that has shrunk by over 40%, over 2.3 million immigrants living in dire conditions in neighboring countries, no real central authority, fragmented territory. there is no longer a civil war, but an open conflict between the shiites, alawites and christians on the one hand and the sunnis and islamists on the other. we don't know exactly who carried out the attacks in the suburbs of damascus on august 21. most of the evidence points to presidential forces. at the same time, we must not forget that his opponents, the groups seeking to create the islamic state in iraq and the levant, also possess chemical weapons. and once, on may 6th of this year, they used it against civilians in homs. this was mentioned by the un high commissioner carla del ponte. no one was ready to attack back then. when the al nusra front and the islamic mujahideen brigades were razing christian villages around aleppo, homs, deir ezzor, when they kidnapped and murdered two bishops, the west decided to arm them. why then did the commission not put these organizations on the list of terrorist groups? we could have ended this war two years ago by closing the borders of syria's neighbors to the thousands of islamists who are now fanning the flames of war. i am against the attack on syria and i am glad that the polish authorities have made a similar decision.
in writing. - the situation in egypt requires a broader perspective. all across north africa, the arab spring has brought islamists to power. today, the egyptian authorities, in their efforts to fight them, cannot be left alone. we may resent the actions of the military, but we must remember that the radicals' rise to power could cause even more destruction and death. we cannot be indifferent to the fate of the christian minority. copts, under president morsi, have been the target of bloody attacks and harassment. de facto, the military intervention gave them a moment of respite. democracy is the foundation, we can never give it up, but the arab world has shown many times that without the army there can be no democracy.
in writing. - in today's vote i voted in favour of the report by mrs gomes on the maritime dimension of the common security and defence policy. the issue of maritime protection regulation has been debated in the ep on many occasions, leading to the development of relevant provisions in this area. foreign trade now accounts for 90% of the eu's trade relations. regulations on the protection of marine nets, the safety of maritime transport or fisheries resources are therefore crucial. with the increase in traffic on sea lanes and communication lines, ensuring safety has become a priority for eu policy. the report also considers potential threats at sea, including terrorism, international crime, piracy and environmental degradation, and develops actions to prevent them. i hope that the solutions proposed will contribute to the development of further economic cooperation between member states and to an increase in investment. in the long term, these actions could translate into tangible benefits also in other areas.
in writing. − i voted for the report which seeks to achieve further integration and coordination of defence and security matters across the european union through its maritime dimension. the euʼs maritime strategy has taken on greater significance given recent events in the southern mediterranean, and the threats posed by drug trafficking, organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. − the report by marietta giannakou raises important issues such as the eu's capacity to respond to international crises, cooperation between member states in the field of security, and a common approach to defence policy. military structures are very important given the diversity and complexity of the eu member states' relations with other countries around the globe. the eu is supported by nato, of which poland has been a member since 1999. the eu's membership of nato structures should therefore be taken into account in order to avoid duplication before implementing specific instruments in the field of inter alia military relations. in my view, a more favourable solution would be cooperation between the existing eu and nato structures, and in the absence of appropriate regulations, to complement them within the framework of solutions already developed and tested. i believe that in the face of the crisis we are facing, it is important to value the expenditure and to use any available funds to minimise its impact.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. it provides a valuable assessment of the european unionʼs military capabilities in the context of the common security and defence policy (csdp). joint eu action through the csdp has helped establish stability, in areas such as the balkans, and the eu mission in afghanistan is also playing a central role alongside nato in increasing the capacity of the afghan police force, and in the international effort to counter piracy and to protect the world food programme.
mr. chairman, please! for almost twenty years, belarus has remained an undemocratic state. although most citizens want change, there is still no real opportunity for a major systemic transformation. repression of the opposition, censorship, brutal suppression of demonstrations are still the order of the day. all of this implies a lack of warming relations between minsk and brussels. the belarusian authorities must immediately embark on deep political reforms if they are to pursue closer cooperation with the west. the signals from minsk, which indicate a willingness to engage at the vilnius eastern partnership summit, should be received with moderate optimism. the absolute basis remains the release and rehabilitation of political prisoners. our strategy towards belarus should be coherent and coordinated. this country is still in the orbit of moscow's influence. the potential enhancement of the community's role in their mutual relations will be much more difficult and the cooperation more unpredictable than for the other members of the partnership. i'm hoping for an effective... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. - i voted in favour of adopting the recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on belarus policy. the report by mr justas vincas paleckis stressed that one of the conditions to be met in eu-belarus relations should be the immediate release of political prisoners, who are held in conditions which in many cases are degrading to the human person and often violate fundamental rights. at the same time, it should be noted that when this condition is met, there will be a real chance for improving relations between belarus and the eu at the eastern partnership summit in vilnius in november. the document also draws attention to the aspects of economic and energy cooperation, dialogue with civil society and cooperation in border management. for poland, belarus is important not only because of its geographical location, but also because of its historical and cultural ties. despite the problems, poland will make every effort to facilitate mutual relations. i believe that much effort should be made to bring belarus closer to the member states of the united europe. in the near future, there could also be a greater emphasis in mutual relations on aspects such as the development of cultural cooperation, regional cooperation and support for the flow of information.
in writing. - not just tough conditions, but above all, looking for opportunities to work together. in the run-up to the eastern partnership summit in vilnius on 28 november 2013, the european parliament will address the eu-belarus cooperation. the notorious human rights violations by the belarusian authorities, the restriction of the freedom of the opposition, the lack of reforms in the judiciary, among others, as well as the issue of corruption at virtually every level of power, are de facto blocking further belarus's rapprochement with the eu. the ineffectiveness of the eu's policy towards belarus so far forces us to reorient it towards consistently issuing ultimatums on the release of political prisoners or updating the list of persons linked to the regime and currently responsible for repression who are subject to a visa ban. at the same time, assistance to belarusian citizens should be increased through support and facilitation of visa policies. a more active visa policy will allow belarus to open up to europe more effectively and, above all, will allow belarusians to have greater access to information. as part of the european neighbourhood policy, we need to take more effective measures to bring belarus closer to europe, rather than pushing it further away, as has been the case recently, by taking small steps, for example by addressing the problems of registration and visa applications in the schengen area. that is why i have decided to support this initiative, which is facing increasing problems in eu-belarus relations.
in writing. − in recent years, the union has focused disproportionately on implementing its foreign policy towards its southern partners, while forgetting its nearest eastern neighbours. we need to make up for that. the opening up of belarus to the west and the development of an open civil society must be one of our priorities. moreover, over 50% of belarusians believe that the eu should increase its role in the areas of economic development, trade and regional cooperation with belarus. on the other hand, there is an increase in the activity of the belarusian authorities towards lithuania, which is another attempt by the belarusian regime to break out of its international isolation and resume dialogue with the union. minsk is trying to return to a strategy of laureling between the west and russia. it does not seem that alexander lukashenko is ready to fully fulfill our main condition, which is the release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners.
mr. chairman, please! in pursuit of their pro-european aspirations, most of the eastern partnership countries are constantly increasing their economic potential by deepening their relations with the community. association agreements provide an excellent platform for cooperation, mutual benefit and a guarantee of the continuity of the policy direction. ukraine, georgia, moldova and armenia meet virtually all the requirements necessary for the conclusion of agreements. meanwhile, the kremlin authorities, faced with the unquestioned loss of influence in the cis countries, are taking a number of aggressive actions aimed at changing the political course of these countries. in pursuit of the eurasian union, moscow has resorted to blackmail, not avoiding actions inspired by soviet diplomacy. the russian pressure on the partnership is reprehensible. the measures taken should be considered at least as a violation of diplomatic standards. the pressure on ukraine and armenia is marked by a challenge to their sovereignty. i demand that we step up our diplomatic efforts with russia and... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on russian pressure on eastern partnership countries because i believe that russia's actions are an attempt to interfere in the decisions of sovereign states and are unacceptable. as a party to the eastern partnership, we have a duty to support these countries in their political relations with moscow. that is why i support the european parliament's resolution which unequivocally condemns the steps taken by russia in recent weeks. the time between now and the eastern partnership summit in vilnius in november will determine the future of these countries and our relations with each other. the key is the signing of an association agreement and a free trade area agreement with ukraine, with which negotiations are the longest and most advanced. the signing of the agreement will be an expression of mutual determination and may provide an impetus for others. that is why i am pleased that the ukrainian parliament has not bowed to russian pressure and continues to follow the european path by voting on the laws necessary to sign the agreement.
in writing. - i support the report by mrs griesbeck on the problem of unaccompanied minors in the european union. this issue requires the european union's particular attention, as the data show that the inflow of children into the european union is not a temporary phenomenon and that in many member states the fundamental rights of unaccompanied minors are violated. it is therefore important to develop a common position in all member states. collect data on the arrival of unaccompanied minors and strive to establish national contact points and train persons who could accompany minors through all formalities. in addition, all member states should ensure that minors are properly cared for. i believe that the introduction of these changes will have a positive impact on the well-being of unaccompanied children and provide them with psychological comfort during their eventual return to their country of origin.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the situation of unaccompanied minors in the eu. these children might arrive during or after a period of conflict, or they may be the victims of human trafficking. the standard of care which is given to children varies hugely across europe and in some cases is to the detriment of child protection. i advocate a coordinated approach to issues concerning minors, including establishing the age of a child without using intrusive medical techniques; the appointment of a guardian who can speak the same language as the child; child protection training for those who work with child asylum-seekers; provision of suitable accommodation for children (separated by age group and gender); access to schooling, healthcare and activities relevant to child development and the collection of data on child asylum-seekers which would assist in forming childrenʼs policy in the future.
in writing. − the cultural and creative sectors (ccs) are evident in every aspect of our daily lives: in the architecture we live in, music we listen to, films, performing arts and books we occupy our free time with. furthermore, these sectors carry an economic value. the european competiveness report 2010 stated that ccs accounted for 4.5 % of gdp and 8.5 million jobs in the eu. nonetheless, ccsʼs contribution has yet to be fully recognised or developed, especially under current economic conditions. this report calls for this to change. pointing to the innovative potential of the ccs and their ability to create jobs and stimulate growth, the report calls for the competitive and export potential of these sectors to be strengthened. the means proposed include establishing clear conditions needed for ccs development, promoting cultural access and education from an early age, and making funding more accessible by establishing a favourable regulatory and tax framework. creativity and culture shaped our past, influence our present and will better prepare us for challenges in the future, so it is important to recognise and maximise the beneficial effects of ccs. i voted therefore to support the report.
in writing. − i abstained from voting on the report on the european cultural and creative sectors as sources of economic growth and jobs. this report calls on the european union to take measures to support and improve access to funding, to broaden the market and to increase the international and trans-sectoral scope of cultural and creative sectors. i admit that this report is timely and important given the economic and cultural importance of the cultural and creative sectors, especially at a time of economic crisis. however, i do not support the final committee report because of the amendment adopted which gives strong support to the idea of making further progress towards tax harmonisation.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is very sad that the eastern part of the democratic republic of congo is again experiencing an escalation of violence and renewed fighting between government troops and rebels. as a result, the humanitarian situation, which was already bad, has deteriorated. worse, there is a real threat of an international armed conflict. un experts have found evidence that rwanda is supporting the rebels. the government in kigali denies this, of course, but if it is true, then the situation is very serious. rwanda wants to be seen as a country of historic success and its destructive involvement in congo could undermine what president kagame has done internally. stabilization requires the efforts of all parties. the congo is a big country, but it's weak. so if we want to stabilize the situation, the european union, the un and the great lakes countries should help strengthen the republic's authority.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. military clashes between the march 23 movement and government troops are exacerbating the crisis in eastern democratic republic of congo. the fighting has claimed thousands of lives, including civilians, un peacekeepers, journalists and ngos. nearly 3 million people have been displaced, and more than 6 million are in urgent need of food and medical care. in the goma region, every day, civilians are victims of violence, rape, and children are kidnapped and forced into military service. the congolese authorities must make every effort to comprehensively reform the state security system, restore the rule of law and find a lasting political solution to ensure the full protection of the civilian population. those guilty of war crimes must be brought to justice. the security of the many humanitarian organisations operating in the region must be guaranteed. the european union and the united nations stabilisation mission must take joint action as soon as possible to ensure more coordinated and effective protection of civilians and urgent reforms, especially in the security sector.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? the region of north kivu has once again become the epicenter of a bloody conflict. regular, increasingly intense clashes between the rebels and government forces have resulted in many deaths. entire families were forced to flee their homes and seek refuge in refugee camps. the province remains virtually outside the control of the state. the humanitarian situation is becoming more and more dramatic. human rights have been violated since the beginning of this conflict. brutal war crimes, massacres of civilians, mass rape, torture - these are commonplace in the congo. the international community is particularly alarmed by the many cases of violence against children, including the recruitment of the youngest into the military. i want to express my condemnation of the escalation of violence in this country. i call on the rebels to cease fighting and begin peace talks. i ask that the european institutions continue to work to stop the bloodshed and move towards democratization. the huge appreciation and thanks go to all the organizations that are providing aid. christian associations, such as caritas, are particularly active in providing basic necessities for the inhabitants.
mr. chairman, please! the situation in the democratic republic of congo is another manifestation of a bloody conflict that has lasted for more than 20 years. innocent people die every year. the european community cannot make the mistake of 1994 when the world forgot about the congo. the conflict claimed a million lives. today, the rebels are fighting government forces again, and there are fears that the conflict will spread to the entire region. people in the democratic republic of congo are leaving their possessions, their homes, and moving to refugee camps. the european parliament therefore calls for dialogue between the government and the rebels in order to stop further fighting. what we do know is that the history of this region gives us the answer. war brings only suffering, death, and solves no problems.
on paper. we have received with great concern the news of attacks by the m23 group on civilians and members of the un stabilisation mission in the drc. brutal crimes against humanity, the use of children in war, and sexual violence against women seem to be commonplace in this region. in addition, in may of this year, negotiations between the rebels and the government broke down, which unfortunately does not give hope for a quick improvement in the situation in the country. as representatives of democratic countries where human life and dignity are of paramount importance, we cannot remain indifferent to the obvious violation of fundamental rights. the mission of eusec rd and eupol rd shall be to continue the efforts to restore security in the democratic republic of the congo through financial and technical assistance. the un should also take all possible measures to stabilize the political and social situation in the country and prevent further bloodshed. the resolution also expresses solidarity with the people of the democratic republic of congo, from which 2.4 million people have already been displaced and 420 000 have fled to neighbouring countries. i believe we have a duty to condemn openly and strongly all acts of aggression and to actively counter the escalation of violence in this country.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the central african republic is one of the classic failed states. in such countries there are always those crimes, those irregularities, which we are talking about and which we mention in our resolution. my group will vote in favour of it because it calls for the necessary action to end the armed conflict, to punish the perpetrators in accordance with national and international law, to bring them to justice and finally to improve the humanitarian situation. the european union should act in two ways: firstly, through diplomatic action and, secondly, through economic action. let's remember that the european union is the biggest donor. we have transferred over 20 million euros to this country. but it's worth remembering that with this type of transfer, there's always irregularity, theft, corruption. let's make sure that money goes to the people who need it, and we should make sure that it goes to the people who need it. in short, diplomatic and economic aid.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? a humanitarian tragedy is unfolding in the central african republic. after the unconstitutional seizure of power, the rebels of the seleka coalition are committing anarchy. violence and destruction have reached unprecedented levels. 70% of the civilian population lives below the poverty line. they hide from lawlessness in the jungles and the savannahs. it's ruled by fear, hunger and disease. children are being recruited into islamic militias. we need to provide protection, food, access to health care, and to enable repatriation and reintegration into society. the central african republic needs our urgent, strong political and financial support. humanitarian aid is key. it is of course important to increase the size of the peacekeeping mission to stabilise the situation, which will help ensure the safety and protection of the civilian population and create the conditions for free democratic elections. the decision of the central african republic to start a programme of illegal arms collection is right, the issue of aid should be raised at the assembly... (the president declared the common position adopted as amended)
mr. chairman, please! the situation in the central african republic is obviously extremely complex and seems to be slowly spiraling out of control. the fighting between supporters of the ousted former president bozizé and supporters of the current government is intensifying. last week alone, 73 people were killed, including - and this is worth noting - a dozen or so south african soldiers who are part of the african union's fomac mission. this is a situation that actually brings us closer to what my colleagues have called the collapse of the state. we cannot, of course, stand by idly, and the international community must take action to end this conflict and to establish dialogue between the warring parties.
mr. chairman, please! since the central african republic was seized by the seleka rebels in march of this year, the situation in the country has spiralled out of control. violence, rape and looting have become a daily reality for the local population, as militarised criminal groups from the country and neighbouring regions have carried out their activities. this has led to an exodus of civilians from the cities and provinces affected by the wave of violence, contributing to the complete collapse of agriculture, as well as the complete paralysis of the activities of public institutions in the country, including the health care system. the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs estimates that nearly one third of the population has fled their homes. one and a half million people are in need of immediate humanitarian assistance, including 200,000 in need of medical assistance. nearly half a million people are affected by extreme hunger. 650,000 children are denied access to education, and 3,500 of them are forced into active military service. the international community should increase its presence in the region, supporting the efforts of the mission in place in their efforts to protect civilians.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. bahrain is a small but important country in the region. it's a country that is not fully democratic, of course, in our sense of democracy, but it's worth noting that it's making some progress towards reforming the judiciary, human rights. a number of institutions have been set up to serve this purpose. that is what we are, of course, praising in our resolution. but it is clear that even in the face of the countries with which we are cooperating, and perhaps especially in such cases, we must also condemn those things that are condemnable. that is why the resolution mentions the unacceptable, in our opinion, persecution of the opposition and torture that took place in bahrain. we condemn all of this. i would like to thank my colleagues from the other political groups for their constructive approach to this resolution, because in our opinion, in the opinion of the ppe, it is well balanced at the moment and i hope that it will serve the reforms in bahrain.
on behalf of the s&d group. we are once again raising the issue of the situation in bahrain in the european parliament, where the authorities are unmoved by the demands of the people for democratic reforms to which the government has committed itself. authorities have brutally suppressed peaceful protests, arresting and torturing adults and minors alike, and human rights activists have been systematically persecuted across the country. just before the planned peaceful demonstration on august 14, the king of bahrain introduced new regulations banning all forms of demonstrations or gatherings in the capital and restricting social media activity. long-term prison sentences and the revocation of citizenship are threatened for those who incite protests, which are considered terrorist acts. all acts of repression and harassment of citizens should be strongly condemned and the bahraini authorities should be called upon to release unconditionally political activists, journalists, bloggers, human rights defenders and all those who peacefully demonstrate their rights. in light of the widespread repression in the country, we expect the bahraini authorities to accept the recommendations of the un human rights council and eventually implement democratic reforms in the country, thereby restoring basic freedoms and civil rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. bahrain is another middle eastern country where democratic demonstrations have been met with a violent response from the authorities. arresting opposition activists, as well as journalists, teachers, doctors and students, is a daily occurrence. the repression is expressed in the activities of special security courts, which convict mainly those who protest against the state policy. i appeal to the rulers of bahrain to respect the rights of citizens to peaceful protest, to freely express their thoughts and beliefs, and to ensure unfettered media activity. the release and rehabilitation of political prisoners must be the basis of goodwill. discrimination through the judiciary must also be stopped. unlike countries like syria, the bahraini government is showing a willingness to engage with the public is a good predictor. the creation of a human rights ministry should be welcomed. equally important is the continued pressure on manama to ensure that this institution operates on the basis of international civil rights standards. i believe our voice will be heard in bahrain. i am counting on constructive action by the authorities and the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i will try to address some of the points we have just heard – except for this cdm thing because, as you know, this is not a europe-only thing, it is something that has to be dealt with globally. but when it comes to europe and the ets, as you know, the commission already in the summer of 2012 undertook steps to correct the shortcomings of the eu emissions trading scheme and strengthen it, based on a two-step approach. on the one hand we should in the short term slow down the increase of supply/demand imbalances by backloading part of the auction supply and, on the other hand, we should identify structural measures to enable the eu ets to address the imbalances in a sustainable manner. this was done through the carbon market report that should have come out only this year, but we brought it forward and sent it out in november last year with six structural options included. since then the commission has conducted a public consultation on the basis of these six options for structural measures and we are now in the process of reducing the six options to significantly fewer. for instance, there appears to be a growing view among stakeholders that the eu ets needs some kind of objective and rule-based mechanism to adjust supply and thereby strengthen market stability. i think mr florenz referred to this – it was mentioned – and it is true that last week the commission organised an expert meeting on this additional option and is currently analysing the feedback received. in order for the eu ets to reduce emissions in a cost-effective manner beyond 2020, the ongoing work on the 2030 climate and energy framework obviously is also central. in relation to the part of the question on promoting linking, the commission very much supports global cooperation on climate change, including on trading systems as well as other means of carbon pricing. korea, china, australia, in the us at state level – california but also many other states – and some of the provinces in canada: there are a lot that have actually set up their own systems, some of which can be and will be linked to the eu ets. as a first example, the eu and switzerland will envisage a full link to start on 1 january 2015. linking different emissions trading systems, however, is challenging, as significant differences in the design of such systems exist, for example on the acceptance of international credits. mr florenz just mentioned earmarking and we have some elements of that already with the new entrants’ reserve 300. but of course other models can be sought out to promote innovation, and i take the message from the distinguished member. thank you very much for the strong support for structural measures to address the current market imbalances in the previous resolutions, thereby acknowledging that the eu ets is a flexible and cost-effective measure. it should remain a key tool to gradually decarbonise the eu power and industry sector. of course i regret that parliament did not adopt a motion for a resolution on the report on the state of the european carbon market in 2012. for the reform to work, we will need to work together so that we can find constructive solutions, but i also heard from mr florenz that there is still a will to try to do this.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. given the many controversies, the european greenhouse gas emissions trading system certainly needs to be discussed. i regard the rejection of the proposal to tighten climate policy by parliament in the april plenary vote as the right move. unfortunately, in july, a majority of meps voted in favour of intervention on the emissions market to suspend the auctioning of 900 million allowances. restrictions on the emissions trading system constitute a rare interference with the free market. this is a particularly damaging proposal by the commission, which is also astonishingly persistent. as a result of these solutions, my country, poland, may lose up to a billion euros in the coming years. the appropriateness of such a policy, especially in the face of the economic downturn, must therefore be considered. backloading also means increased costs for all energy-intensive industries and coal-fired power plants. for the economies of countries like poland, this is a very serious blow. the direct impact will, of course, be felt by the citizens. so we're working on a perfect recipe for prolonging the crisis. is that the european commission's objective? i hope not. that is why i think it is absolutely necessary to block backloading. meanwhile, some meps and european politicians are pushing for further restrictions. i'm asking you to consider it.
on behalf of the efd group. in the parliamentary committee on the environment, public health and food safety on 18 september, we rejected by a majority the draft resolution on co2 emission allowances. the draft permanent reduction of allowances in the emissions trading scheme was therefore not accepted. once again, i am firmly opposed to any administrative interference with the emissions trading system, which was supposed to operate on the basis of free market principles. the objective of adequate reduction has been achieved. the question to the commission approved by the committee raises serious doubts. it calls for the planned structural reforms to be consistent with the union's 2050 target, while proposals for new reduction targets for the period after 2020 have not yet been approved. if the 80% emission reduction target is pushed through by 2050, many countries, including poland, will be forced to use the veto. they will do so in defence of their most basic economic and social interests - as mr bielan has just said. it should also be stressed that any efforts to tackle climate change will be ineffective without a global agreement on the issue. that's the most basic and most important thing. the changes that are happening in switzerland and in some countries are not changing the global situation at all. it's the united states, china, india, the big players, that need to change their minds on this. that's why the climate summit is so important. (the president cut the speaker off)
the ets as a european system was supposed to have very good results. it was a market mechanism that failed us. we want to change it now, but we need to do it through impact assessments and public consultation across sectors. we can't make changes without first checking and getting analysis that will point the way to improving this system. we've only recently introduced backloading. we don't know how it's going to work yet, because this is a very new case. however, price interference is not permitted. there have been proposals to set minimum prices, and if they turn out to be too low... what do you mean, too low? if it's a market mechanism, it regulates the price level. it cannot be verified and changed according to the situation and the commission cannot be empowered to do so. the mass flight of our emissions out of europe is also dangerous, and we are therefore seeing an industrial withdrawal from europe. we must ensure that industry in europe exists, exists and develops. so at this point, with the noose around our necks, we have to realize that without signing international commitments, we're not going to get anywhere.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i fully support the changes to the european emissions trading system after 2020. however, i believe that we cannot change it before we have decided on the eu's 2030 climate and energy targets. one should be linked to the other and flow from the other, so it is too early to make such a decision at this point. the impact of the emissions trading system on the functioning of the european market will be very different depending on whether the union decides on targets 25, 30 or 40, and as we see different countries are now putting forward different proposals. the impact will also be different if we decide on a single co2 target or if we decide on several targets, including renewable energy and energy efficiency. you can see that each of these targets has a different impact, and that's why we have to hold off on the decision.
on behalf of the ppe group. ladies and gentlemen! i ask you to support this report, which means that i disagree with the rapporteur and will vote against mr mato's report tomorrow for a number of reasons. firstly, ratification of the mauritian protocol on fisheries is very important for the polish fleet. the mauritanian fishing grounds are currently the only fishing grounds where polish pelagic vessels may fish. the polish fleet is fishing intensively in mauritania's waters and stopping it would have catastrophic consequences. besides, the polish fleet has already fished all the available catch, so i don't have a mandate to vote against this agreement. i agree that the deal is not perfect, but it's better than the previous version. it's disappointing that we can't catch cephalopods. this constitutes a significant gap, but it cannot be a reason to break or freeze relations with mauritania. this will not improve the situation and will radically worsen the situation of other segments of the eu fleet. i am thinking of poland, but also of latvia, lithuania, estonia and the netherlands. the fleets of these countries benefit from fishing opportunities in mauritanian waters and have no access to alternative fishing grounds. a period of several months without fishing opportunities would have very serious financial consequences for the industry. today, ships are fishing and there is employment for both the ships and the crews working there. in addition, it is worth mentioning that the european commission has already transferred money to mauritania in december 2012, so in any case the european union budget has already borne the costs of fishing this season. that is why i urge you to support this protocol.
mr. chairman, please! on october 2 of this year, we celebrated the 600th anniversary of the horological union. it plundered poland and the politically disadvantaged lithuania. the horod union was a fraternal and cultural union, which was also overlaid with political and economic ties. it was repeatedly threatened, especially in the face of the intrigues of the teutonic order and moscow. however, it eventually morphed from a personal union into a semi-real one, leaving poland and lithuania the right to their own offices, treasury, and armies. i encourage you to analyze the provisions of the nearly 400-year-old polish-lithuanian union and read the historical events. they provide a basis for drawing conclusions for the european union today in the face of the actions of individual member states and their representatives.
in writing. any violation of human rights deserves the unequivocal opposition of the european parliament. we have repeatedly stated in this chamber that we do not agree with all forms of discrimination. the problem of genocide and abortion based on the sex of the child is all the more compelling. unfortunately, the information that we often get is that female infanticide is seen in some societies as a way of getting rid of the inferior child, who will be a greater economic burden on the family in the future because of the need to provide a dowry for the daughter. all these cases are extreme examples of gender inequality on the most basic human level. selection based on the sex of the child deserves to be categorically and firmly condemned. so we have to try to change the mindset of those societies where it's being used for cultural, economic or any other reason. this obligation is incumbent on all the institutions of the union. i therefore urge the commission to promote, in its relations with partner countries, measures to combat sex selection as a fundamental human right.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - madam president! - what are you doing? this directive has the potential to protect consumers, and in particular young people, from the very negative health effects of smoking. i strongly condemn any action aimed at encouraging young people to smoke. so i think we should support the visible, large, 75 percent health warnings so that consumers, and especially those sensitive consumers like children and adolescents, are aware of the dangers. in my opinion in the imco committee, i was in favour of balancing the market aspects and the health aspects. we will not achieve the aims of the directive by banning one type of tobacco product while leaving many others on the market that are just as harmful. it is crucial to improve the information and reduce the attractiveness of these products. smoking remains the most serious health problem, with up to 70% of people starting to smoke just before the age of 18. that is why our task as representatives of the people is to protect consumers and that should be reflected in today's vote.
the question asked by raising the blue card. thank you, mr. ambassador! i appreciate your concern and thank you for raising the issue of the loss of jobs for european farmers as a result of the adoption of this directive. poland is the largest producer of tobacco and cigarettes. have you carried out any studies on the thousands of jobs that will be lost as a result of the adoption of this directive and do you have any proposals for those who will lose their jobs and have to look elsewhere as a result of your decision to regulate the lives of europeans?
i have to inform you that i have just been informed by the chair's colleagues that i will no longer be awarded the 'blue card' because i wanted to ask a question to one of the speakers, disagreeing with his thesis and wanting to know what he had in mind. unfortunately, i have been informed that the blue card will be treated with a restrictive approach, which i understand limits our right to debate and shows the undemocratic nature of our house, even in such matters.
i respect all the views expressed in this chamber, but i would ask that you do not create an atmosphere of suspicion towards those who have any doubts about this directive, about lobbying on behalf of the tobacco companies. well, it's not like that. one might wonder if we were actually discussing a complete ban on smoking. but we don't do that and therefore you can advocate for smoking control (which i wholeheartedly support - i don't smoke and i support solutions to reduce smoking), but that doesn't mean i have to support all the solutions in this bill in secret, even those that are cloaked in hypocrisy. that's the word that came out of this room today, and i'm going to use it. what else is there but hypocrisy in the solutions to eliminate slim or menthol cigarettes? there are no studies that show that more people start smoking these milder cigarettes, or what is the number of people who quit smoking these cigarettes. i know a lot of people who switched to menthol cigarettes and then quit completely. it's not about health, it's about business. let's face it. some countries that produce menthol cigarettes will stop producing them and their production will be moved to other countries that produce strong cigarettes. it's not just health that's at stake in this directive, but business as well. and here, unfortunately, is the hypocrisy i see, and that is why i cannot support this directive in its present form. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i am in favour of reducing smoking and appreciate the good intentions, but some of the measures in the directive may have the opposite effect. i share your concern, but i fear that banning menthol and 'slim' cigarettes will not reduce smoking, and may even increase it, because those who smoke these cigarettes now will smoke stronger cigarettes, even more harmful. my goal is the same: i want people to smoke less cigarettes, but not all the measures lead to that goal.
mr. chairman, please! since several colleagues have spoken about lobbyists, i will begin this brief statement by saying that as a longtime ngo activist i think it is an absolute scandal for lobbyists to impersonate ngos, social organisations, whether from the pharmaceutical side or the tobacco industry side. it's not that we have worked so hard to build civil society - i myself come from a post-communist country - so that it can be used by lobby groups. come to us as lobbyists, which you do anyway, because otherwise you undermine the most important element of democracy, which is authentic civil society. the second point is for those who think we need to impose very strict bans. of course, it would be great if people were healthy, happy, reasonable, did not smoke and did not have addictions, but they smoke and have addictions, so we have to create a law for man and for the citizen so that he does not suffer too much. let's make transitions, let's make them sensible, because we are sensible envoys. let's give mrs. mcavan a mandate to repeal anything that encourages it, but let's not cause any more suffering to the public.
mr. chairman, please! the lack of consistency and sincerity of those who tell us that they want to reduce the production and consumption of cigarettes and tobacco in europe is evident in this case. on the one hand, certain categories of cigarettes are prohibited, while others are not. for example, slim cigarettes are banned, which are produced in poland or bulgaria, but extra forte cigarettes, which are produced in france or other countries, are not. it's a discrepancy that shows that there may be a business connection. so if we're going to ban it, maybe it should be for all cigarettes. but if we are selectively imposing these restrictions and hitting producers in certain countries, then there may be some business behind it and it's not honest. i'm anti-smoking - i don't smoke - and i'm for education that gets to people and convinces them not to smoke. but let us not introduce restrictions which cause serious economic problems in some countries and favour and support some and throw stones at others.
in writing. i support the general aims of the directive to reduce smoking, in particular to prevent young people from initiating tobacco use and to raise awareness of the negative effects of smoking. however, i am opposed to certain provisions of the draft which create legal problems. the legal basis chosen by the commission, namely article 114 (1) tfeu, which is intended to adapt the requirements for the better functioning of the single market, is questionable. the commission's objective of health protection falls within the competence of the member states under article 168 (5) tfeu, which expressly excludes any harmonisation of measures whose purpose is directly to protect public health in relation to tobacco products. moreover, the prohibition of the sale of cigarettes of the 'slim' or 'menthol' type and the exclusion from the scope of the restrictions of products such as cigars on the basis of unsubstantiated claims that some are more attractive to young people than others have nothing to do with improving the functioning of the single market. moreover, it may lead to discrimination against certain undertakings and to the favouring of others, which will distort competition on the union market. the standardisation of packaging raises further doubts as to the respect of the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. in addition, the imposition of 'uniform packaging' may infringe intellectual property rights, in particular trademarks expressly covered by the property rights of article 17 of the charter and article 20 of the trips agreement. the commission has also proposed a number of delegated acts which, under article 290 tfeu, should only concern ancillary legislation. however, the draft law applies to cases of high importance, which gives the commission the de facto right to even set a maximum nicotine content of 0% in cigarettes, which could lead to a total ban on the marketing of these goods and to move cigarettes to the 'black market', which would only increase the problem rather than solve it.
in writing. the main aim of the so-called tobacco directive is to reduce the number of smokers in the eu. studies carried out by the european commission show that flavoured and slim cigarettes are the main cigarettes used by young europeans, and it has been proposed to withdraw these products from the market. however, this decision has very serious implications for the tobacco industry, which is of great economic importance in many member states. of course, in the interests of public health, especially the health of young people, we should restrict access to tobacco products to minors, support education and information activities to raise awareness of the effects of smoking and require manufacturers to provide reliable information on the harmfulness of their products on their packaging. however, the introduction of such restrictive provisions would have fatal consequences for the agricultural sector, industry and trade. tobacco growers, producers and retailers will suffer, and a huge number of jobs will be lost. furthermore, if we reduce cigarette production in the eu, it will certainly increase in the neighbouring countries, i.e. russia and belarus, and this in turn will increase the illegal trade, especially on the eu's eastern border. that is why i am in favour of rejecting such a rigorous proposal. if we want to reduce trade in tobacco products in the eu, we must do so gradually, with transitional periods and compensation for producers, without negative consequences for the agricultural sector, industry and trade.
in writing. in its draft new tobacco directive, the european commission is trying to impose a single model of action on all member states. in pursuing the goal of reducing smoking in europe by a paltry 2%, the commission is resorting to measures whose effectiveness is not at all confirmed, but the expected side effects in the form of a decrease in employment or an increase in smuggling and organised crime are significant. poland is one of the largest european producers of raw tobacco and tobacco products. menthol and 'slim' cigarettes are noticeably more popular in poland than in other member states. this is an expression of european diversity: just as in sweden people use snus, in finland they use candy that looks like a pipe, and in portugal they use traditional short cigarettes, so in poland people smoke mentole and slimy. i also oppose regulating e-cigarettes as medical products. e-cigarettes should always be tested for quality, but treating them like drugs will certainly raise their price and hit their manufacturers mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. there is no doubt that all tobacco products are harmful and can lead to disease and death. that is why i am a strong advocate of informing europeans about the harmful effects of smoking and, in particular, of the need to protect young people. however, such regulation must not lead to discrimination against agriculture, industry and local businesses in the same country.
in writing. – while the tpd addresses many important facets of public health i fear that it also infringes on the rights of our citizens while preventing them and their member states from determining what tobacco products can and can’t be sold. i am concerned that historically traditional products that are used in certain member states are in danger. in saying that, i want to emphasise that i support the pursuit of protecting the youth of this union; however, adults should retain their right to purchase products that have long been part of their culture. also, certain bans, such as those outlined in this directive, have the effect of imposing on our internal market, and subsequently impede our ability to not only improve the economies of certain member states but also reduce our ability to control and/or regulate the sale of tobacco products on the black market, which are, without a doubt, going to drastically increase given the restrictions put forth by the tpd.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the shape and direction of the eu's environmental policy, particularly in the energy sector, has so far had little impact on global climate policy. unfortunately, the policy is having a negative impact on the competitiveness of the european economy and is slowing down europe's recovery from the economic crisis. the word "relocation" sounds nice, but it means job loss, and the presence of these people is just a sign of the times. there will be more if we don't think about the consequences of this policy. environmental protection yes, but the economy and the protection of jobs are also important. in a break with previous agreements, the european commission is proposing further changes to regulations on biofuels, the emissions trading system, and co2 reduction. by doing so, we lose credibility in the eyes of investors who have a right to expect stable and predictable policies. i take this as a sign of a powerful lobbying effort by oil and gas exporters to european markets. shale gas should be covered at the extraction stage, not at the exploration stage. this is a big mistake and irresponsible!
mr. chairman, please! the european commission's proposal had two main objectives. first, it was to simplify and second, to shorten the procedures involved in the environmental assessment. what the european parliament is proposing is having the opposite effect. the adoption of such provisions means that procedures will be longer and more complex. the obligation on investors to refer to concepts such as biodiversity or a baseline scenario is not only disproportionate, but also not legally defined, bringing huge potential for legal uncertainty. the tightening of administrative sanctions for the exploration of oil and gas from unconventional sources gives the impression of deliberate, politically motivated discrimination against a chosen technology a technology that has been present in europe for years and is subject to environmental assessment under the current regulations. parliament is trying to create a bureaucratic nightmare for more than just the energy industry. this is true of construction, road construction, and really any major investment. i can't think of a more vivid example... (the president cut off the speaker)
legal certainty, process efficiency and procedural abbreviation are the basis for effective environmental protection. they also enable investment in energy and innovation, contributing to the european union's energy security and climate protection. in the present proposal, which was put forward by the rapporteur, we have provisions and amendments which go against these priorities. i would like to draw particular attention to the important issue of arbitrary and unjustified amendments to the annex, as is the case with shale gas extraction and exploration. after my report was voted in november 2012, it became clear that there is no chance of even an ideological moratorium on shale gas extraction in europe. i therefore consider that the amendments concerning the inclusion of the exploration phase in the annex to the first directive are an attempt to make shale gas extraction practically impossible or unprofitable. there is no reason to extend the search and reconnaissance phase to these rules. the introduction of an additional, unjustified distinction between conventional and unconventional wells is directly aimed at the development of this sector, which the european union cannot afford to do in the face of rising energy prices for industry and end users. a directive this crucial shouldn't be... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the report by mr zanoni, which is being discussed today, cannot be seen as a positive development. one of the errors is the provision that requires an environmental impact assessment to be carried out for the exploration phase of unconventional hydrocarbons. the commission therefore concludes that the measures at issue are imputable to the state and that they constitute state aid. it is difficult to understand the intentions of the rapporteur, since no studies have been published to date confirming the negative environmental impact of exploration for unconventional hydrocarbons. the inclusion of the extraction phase in annex i to the amended directive, irrespective of the quantity of ore extracted, is another error. the question is therefore how and on what basis the daily exploitation level for such deposits will be determined. it is also unjustified to distinguish coalbed methane from other fossil fuels and to require its extraction to be subject to an environmental impact assessment. could europe, which is setting itself increasingly ambitious climate targets, not take a cue from the us? this country, which has been exploring shale gas on a large scale for a long time, is becoming a real winner not only in terms of access to cheap fuel, but also in terms of reducing emissions fairly easily. the same should apply to those member states whose economies are based on high-carbon technologies and which have large shale gas reserves, which are much less polluting.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would just like to refer to the question of the inclusion of shale gas exploration and production projects in annex i to the directive. mandatory environmental impact assessment of all stages of activities related to unconventional hydrocarbon deposits is decidedly far-reaching and unauthorised. on this point, i have tabled an amendment with a group of 40 members which deserves support in tomorrow's vote. the adoption of the proposed regulations would mean a slowdown or complete halt in the process of shale gas exploitation in, for example, my country and the flight of investors to countries where such procedures are not in place, as is the case in ukraine. european experience to date and environmental studies carried out in the member states most advanced in the work on unconventional hydrocarbon deposits show that exploration and production activities in compliance with current legislation and best practices are carried out in an environmentally safe manner. it is worth recalling that the european commission is preparing an appropriate legal framework to manage the risks and fill the legal gaps in shale gas extraction in the european union. i believe that the european commission's new initiative on environmental impact assessment should include a comprehensive and balanced set of rules for industry in europe that will clearly facilitate the development of this industry rather than hamper it.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation. i am glad that parliament gave its consent, which was required in order for the council to adopt this act. this agreement will allow for closer cooperation with ukraine in the area of satellite navigation and is just one area where eu-ukraine cooperation will be strengthened – with benefits for both parties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the egf helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when their company has shut down or their factory is moved to outside of the eu. the strong decline of the ict sector in italy has led anovo italia s.p.a. and jabil cm s.r.l. to close their operations and dismiss their workers despite recent reorganisation efforts. the regions concerned include lombardy and in particular the provinces of milano and varese. the egf contribution envisaged is intended to aid the reintegration of 480 workers into employment. i support this effort.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. the egf helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changing global trade patterns. the request concerns the mobilisation of egf assistance for de tomaso autombili spa, automobile enterprise from italy. the difficulties encountered by the automotive sector together with the tightening of credit that followed the economic and financial crisis put an extra burden on this enterprise which entered into liquidation proceedings in april 2012. the regions concerned include regions piemonte and toscana.
mr. chairman, please! corruption is a phenomenon that has a devastating impact on the functioning of any administration, and in some countries it perpetuates discriminatory practices with regard to civil and political rights. it is no accident that the administrations of authoritarian states are considered to be highly corrupt, driven primarily by the desire to maintain power, because they are highly susceptible to this type of dependence. corruption is a direct threat to democracy and the enforcement of human rights, and is often a source of conflict. in combination with the lack of access to information for citizens, it effectively guarantees impunity for dictatorial authorities who subjugate the societies they govern. when we give financial aid to third countries, we need to monitor its use properly. it cannot be a source of illegal income for their officials, and unfortunately, there are cases like this. expanding the definition of a human rights defender to include anti-corruption activists or those who expose these pathological practices, such as investigative journalists, seems like an interesting proposition.
in writing. − corruption, understood as the abuse of power for private, individual or collective, direct or indirect benefit, and the fraud, nepotism and illegal subsidisation of political parties and electoral campaigns that are closely linked to it, pose serious threats to democracy and the development of civil society. the european union can and should become a credible leader in the fight against corruption by addressing the problems of organised crime, corruption and money laundering within its own borders. i am in favour of the commission imposing the obligation to apply the highest standards of fairness in procurement procedures for the implementation of eu-funded projects, in particular by promoting greater availability of calls for tender for local organisations. it should be stressed that this approach to public procurement, i.e. based on respect for human rights, creates favourable conditions for the authorities to empower disadvantaged groups. as a watchdog of human rights, the eu should promote the exchange of good practices in anti-corruption activities both between member states and third countries, stimulating a process of mutual learning and strengthening democratic values.
in writing. − according to a report by the hertie school of governance in berlin and the bertelsmann foundation, the real cost of corruption in europe is well over the €100 billion previously estimated. the estimated amount of corruption therefore amounts to almost one third of the eu budget for the years 2014-2020. corruption thus costs eu countries €323 billion a year, undermining the union's image as a world leader in the fight against corruption. that's why we need to step up our efforts to fight this disease. the gomes report, which we are voting on today, fully captures the scale of the problem and points to the basic actions we should take. that's why i endorsed the record of this document. to fight this problem, we must work together. the mutual exchange of information and experience will benefit not only the eu but also the partner countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report. it aptly describes the world in rapid transition undergoing fundamental changes in power, demography, climate, urbanisation and technology, and the need for policymakers to invest greater efforts in monitoring these global trends. i think that this work of identifying key future changes will foster better foresight and more informed long-term strategic perspectives concerning the challenges and choices facing the european union and its member states.
the adopted report rightly pointed out that in certain cases relating to labour law disputes, it may be difficult to determine the jurisdiction of the court having jurisdiction over the case. employment matters have rightly been excluded from the scope of the brussels i regulation and left to the jurisdiction of the member states. without calling into question the correctness of this approach, it is necessary to consider how the protection of workers' interests will be regulated in the future. in a situation where the defendant is the employer, and due to the cross-border nature of the employment relationship, for example in terms of the place of work, the employer's registered office or the employee's country of origin, it is not possible to establish unequivocally the jurisdiction of the court.
in writing. − following the changes introduced by the brussels i regulation signed on 12 december 2012, the future enforcement of judgments in another member state will be considerably simplified. although the changes in the recast version are substantial and purposeful, the scope of the recast procedure has not covered a very important issue of jurisdictional provisions in labour law. i believe that clear rules of conduct in this area are very much needed, especially at a time when the european labour market is open to all community citizens and many of them take advantage of earning opportunities in another member state. i support the initiative of the legal affairs committee which aims to introduce further amendments to the brussels i regulation to address the issues of jurisdiction in labour law. workers should know how to assert their rights in any disputes arising from the cross-border nature of their work. i therefore support the request for action to improve the rules on jurisdiction applicable to individual contracts of employment and to collective dispute settlement. i agree with the amendments proposed in the report to the brussels i regulation with regard to the establishment of an exclusive jurisdiction in collective disputes in the place where such a dispute is to be or has been brought and the establishment of a guarantee for the worker that he will be able to sue his employer in the court of the member state in which the worker is habitually resident. i believe that these changes will contribute to improving the judicial system and strengthening the legal position of the employee, regardless of where he is employed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report by mrs pervenche berès on the proposal for a directive on the flag state's responsibility for the enforcement of council directive 2009/13/ec implementing the agreement between the shipowners' association of the european community and the european transport workers' federation on the maritime labour convention 2006 and amending directive 1999/63/ec. in my view, the maritime labour convention makes a significant contribution to establishing a level playing field in the global economy by establishing common minimum standards for all flags and seafarers. i also sincerely hope that it will help to make maritime professions more attractive to the people of the union. however, in order to do so, we must bear in mind that in most eu member states national rules are already more restrictive and provide a higher level of protection than the international labour organisation standards. i am therefore pleased that the report includes a clause which points out that the application of the directive should in no case lead to a reduction in the level of protection of seafarers that they currently enjoy in the member states of the union. furthermore, i believe that the directive rightly specifies the obligations of the member states to establish a system to ensure that supervisory organisations operate at an appropriate standard. i believe that this will contribute to a more efficient and effective enforcement of the provisions of the convention.
in writing. - the work on the tobacco directive was fraught with difficulties. the confrontation of two reasons, namely health aspects and economic interests, forced me to take a position that took into account the arguments of both sides. i voted in favour of measures to combat the problem of young people becoming addicted to tobacco, including the introduction of a warning label covering 65% of the surface of a cigarette pack. i would point out that the draft directive proposed by the commission did not, in principle, focus on measures to promote health and protect against the negative effects of smoking. if implemented, i would expect to see the relocation of tobacco production and factories from poland rather than a real reduction in the number of smokers. in the context of the instruments covered by the proposal for a directive, i regard the 2% reduction in the number of smokers expected by the commission over five years as being on the verge of statistical error! on the other hand, concrete data is an undeniable argument! poland is a key producer of tobacco and tobacco products in europe, producing around 40 000 tonnes per year, of which more than a third is grown in the lublin province. among polish tobacco products, slim cigarettes, whose production is to be maintained, and menthol cigarettes, for which a transitional period has been negotiated, occupy a significant position. i therefore welcome the outcome of the vote in the ep and hope that a compromise will be found in the council which is in line with this position.
in writing. - i voted against the commission's proposal to amend the tobacco directive. i believe that the changes proposed by the commission may not only harm the interests of polish entrepreneurs, but also block the right to free choice of the citizens of the european union. i voted against the withdrawal of menthol cigarettes and slim cigarettes. i believe that the consequence of adopting these amendments could be the loss of thousands of jobs for poles. at this point, i would like to recall that poland is a major producer of finished tobacco products: there are 6 factories in poland producing tobacco products and tobacco is grown on more than 14,500 farms. the tobacco industry is the livelihood of many polish families.
in writing. - today's vote is an important signal that the european parliament is standing guard over the health and safety of consumers. i voted in favour of a negotiating mandate because the directive should be adopted as soon as possible in order to protect consumers from the harmful effects of smoking. today, more than 700,000 people die each year from smoking-related diseases, which is the equivalent of the entire population of frankfurt disappearing every year. the fact that up to 70% of new smokers are under 18 years of age is particularly worrying and this trend must be stopped. sadly, today young people are encouraged to smoke colorful packaging that is associated with success, for example. but the packaging should not be an advertising surface, it should be an informational one, which is why i voted today in favor of 75 percent of the health warnings. i also believe that products containing nicotine that are not tested should not be allowed to be placed on the market. consumers must be fully informed about the product and the risks associated with its use. some consumers, especially children and young people, may, because of insufficient information, believe that a product is less harmful than it is or that it is not harmful at all, often with tragic consequences. i am pleased that the position adopted today has managed to balance market and health concerns.
in writing. − over the past few years, i have prepared numerous written questions to the commission concerning the possible negative effects this directive may have on polish farmers. we have to note that revenue from tobacco production in poland accounts for 36 % of all revenue from agricultural products, and the country is the largest exporter of tobacco products in the eu. close to 60 000 people make their living by growing tobacco. i do not smoke cigarettes, but i believe that as long as the cigarettes are not directed toward minors, consenting adults who understand the health risks involved should be able to choose whether they smoke or not. we must find the right balance between ensuring the health and well-being of eu citizens and their freedom to make informed decisions. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the current directive on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products was adopted 12 years ago. from the very beginning, it has been a source of great excitement, which we have not been able to avoid this time. i have received many e-mails both in favour of and against the directive we voted on today. the possibility of banning the production, distribution and sale of products such as slim, superslim, menthol cigarettes, flavoured tobacco and the inclusion of electronic cigarettes in medicinal products has again caused a wave of controversy. today's vote also concerned the labelling of cigarette packets with information on the harmful effects of their use. i voted today to adopt the directive. i have advocated banning the sale of slim cigarettes and for 65% of cigarettes to be covered with information on their harmfulness, because i know that the problem of tobacco addiction affects mainly young people. i also have in mind the number of deaths caused by smoking - about 700 000 citizens die every year. i am also aware that the tobacco industry is an important part of the polish economy. that is why i voted for the introduction of a so-called transitional period, for example, in the case of menthol cigarettes, and a total ban on their sale would not come into force for eight years. all the actions we have taken have been aimed at improving the health and quality of life of all eu citizens.
in writing. − the production, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products is closely linked to the protection of public health. in this context, i express my understanding of the european commission's intention to ban indirect means of promoting tobacco products. however, this priority cannot be achieved at the expense of consumer freedom and jobs. studies confirm that the level of tobacco cultivation in the european union has no direct relationship with the number of citizens who buy tobacco. in addition to efforts to stop young people from initiating tobacco use, however, i am concerned about the interests of a number of socioeconomic groups involved in the tobacco production process. direct implementation of certain regulations could lead to job losses for union growers, producers and sellers, and it is therefore important to maintain the possibility of selling the raw tobacco produced by them to european consumers, while ensuring its highest quality and meeting the standards for ingredients, without discriminating against tobacco varieties grown in adverse climatic conditions, such as in poland. in addition, regulations such as plain packaging may lead to smuggled tobacco products appearing on the market. i also strongly believe that the european union should take action to prevent tobacco initiation, especially among young people, and to raise awareness among citizens of the negative effects of smoking.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states concerning the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products (com(2012)0788 – c7-0420/2012 – 2012/0366(cod)). after much debate and cooperation with my fellow members i feel that this document fairly represents and protects the citizens of the european union. while preparing this document it was very important that we not infringe upon the internal market of the eu and protect the rights of tobacco users. with that being said, the purpose of this document was also to prevent young people from starting the habit of tobacco use. i firmly support this objective; however, it was important to protect cultural aspects as well, therefore the term ‘historical traditional use’ was implemented to identify products that are special to certain regions and should not be affected. in the end i feel that this document has put forth a reasonable compromise so that all member states can hold on to their individual culture while protecting future generations.
in writing. - today's discussion is partly a discussion between the ratios of the heart and the mind. the european parliament has voted in favour of a ban on smoking and the european commission's proposal to introduce measures to reduce the high mortality rate associated with smoking. according to estimates by experts in poland, 55,000 premature deaths each year are related to smoking. it's a great tragedy every time. the cost of treating the effects of smoking also exceeds the tax revenues of the companies. on the other hand, reason strongly opposes the tobacco directive: the huge direct losses to the tobacco industry in poland alone, which today employs over 200 000 workers, including over 2 000 in my home town of krakow, the deterioration of the situation of over 60 000 tobacco growers in poland, the additional costs of increasing cigarette smuggling into the eu. smuggling, which already costs the eu budget more than €10 billion a year. these values will undoubtedly increase, while strengthening organized crime groups. this ban will not reduce the number of smokers, this ban will only increase unemployment and will cause production to move outside the eu countries to the east. that is why i was and am against the european commission's proposals in the tobacco directive.
in writing. - so far, 10 countries have expressed criticism of the draft tobacco directive these were poland, greece, spain, italy, cyprus, hungary, the czech republic, bulgaria, romania and croatia. the common position is based on the belief that the draft directive is a blow to the tobacco sector and could lead to the loss of many jobs. concerns about the increase of the grey area and the decrease in budgetary revenues also seem to be justified. poland is the largest producer of finished tobacco products and the second largest producer of tobacco in the eu. there are six factories there, employing 6,000 people. the tobacco industry accounts for 36% of the value of agri-food exports. in the light of the above, the position of the polish delegation, which opposes the draft amendment to the eu tobacco directive, which provides, inter alia, for a ban on the sale of thin cigarettes, i.e. slims, and flavoured (menthol) cigarettes, seems obvious. the overall direction of the european commission's actions cannot be judged negatively every country is concerned to protect the health and lives of eu citizens. such unambiguous steps, however, may not achieve the intended goal but may contribute to a problem that is harmful to the country's economy. better than the new regulations might be campaigns to educate current and potential smokers about the harmful effects of smoking.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament's consent to the ratification of the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the islamic republic of mauritania. the document negotiated by the european commission addresses issues such as fishing rights and the associated financial compensation. the main objective of the negotiations was to guarantee the european fleet access to the surplus fish stocks of mauritania. the agreement thus reached would allow these areas to be developed in a sustainable way, both environmentally and economically. the protocol in question is of particular importance for polish fishermen who fish intensively in mauritanian waters. these waters are rich in fish species such as mackerel and sardines and are the main source of these for polish vessels, which currently have no alternative fishing grounds. failure to agree to ratify the protocol would therefore have a number of negative consequences and would cause a lot of difficulties for the polish fleet.
in writing. − the european parliament and each member state have a duty to protect fundamental human rights, including as a fundamental right to life. the support for the report by antigoni papadopoulou, which i gave at the september session in strasbourg, is a strong opposition to abortion, and in this particular case to termination of pregnancy on grounds of sex. as we can see from the report, gender-selective genocide is not only occurring in asia and europe, but also in north america, africa and latin america. gender selection is a widespread phenomenon, and pregnant women deliberately or under pressure choose not to have girls because girls are considered a burden on society. my policy is to promote and protect life. we cannot remain silent when human rights and lives are at stake.
in writing. - abortion is a violation of the universal human principles of a universal and universal nature. all public authorities, including those of the european union, have a duty to protect human life from conception to natural death. therefore, any form of abortion should be opposed. the phenomenon of selective abortion (due to the sex of the child) is the result of widespread access and approval by some communities of abortion as a method of birth control. every child, regardless of gender, has the right to adequate legal protection both before and after birth for survival and development. it is important to emphasize that according to the un convention on the rights of the child, girls have the same status as boys. i would also point out that there is no 'human right to abortion' in international law. it is not provided for in any international agreement, nor does it derive from customary law. any other reasoning is completely unfounded and completely absent from the principles of international law. in this context, it is important to note that no one can effectively invoke any international legally binding un treaty as establishing or recognising the right to abortion. every human being has the full and inalienable right to refuse to act against his conscience in accordance with article 18 of the universal declaration of human rights.
in writing. - gender-based genocide is a widespread problem, not only in the poorest countries of africa, asia and latin america, but also in north america and europe. it is also a serious crime, one of the most brutal violations of fundamental human rights, and therefore requires immediate action. gender selection is carried out by means of sex determination during pregnancy through selective abortion, and after birth, through infanticide or abandonment, and is related to the cultural conditions of some societies where daughters are considered a burden on the family. it is therefore necessary to take action to implement measures to support girls and women. these measures should be aimed at building a society based on the principle of gender equality, where educational materials would strengthen women's chances of living in an environment that respects gender equality and where stereotypical perceptions of the roles of women and men would appear as an archaic and unnecessary concept. supporting women in the exercise of their rights should be through the creation of legal measures that constitute their capacity to make decisions independently, without the interference of their spouses. giving women access to education, employment, health care, free access to contraception, a bank account without the consent or permission of a spouse or other person is crucial in this case.
in writing. − i believe that this is an important report and i am glad that parliament addressed the issue of ‘gendercideʼ which we have described as ‘the killing of people belonging to a particular sex, because of their sexʼ. this applies particularly to cases of female foetuses being aborted and new-born baby girls being killed because they are female. gendercide is a sad reality in many cultures. however, i chose to abstain on the final vote because of my pro-life principles. i am concerned that ‘sexual and reproductive health care servicesʼ and ‘reproductive rightsʼ are often used as euphemisms for abortion. i agree with the epp group which sought to promote a stronger pro-life message at committee level by having the text refer to ‘unborn girlsʼ. unfortunately, the committee on womenʼs rights and gender equality opposed this position.
mr. chairman, please! the economic crisis has led to a weakening of social and economic cohesion between the regions of the union. many of them are still dealing with the devastating effects of the war. the most serious of these are high unemployment and widening disparities both with other regions and at local level. an example of a highly diverse region is the polish province of mazowieckie with its rich, rapidly developing warsaw and the much poorer districts of siedlecki or radom. despite the high economic indicators, mazowsze remains heavily indebted, even threatened with bankruptcy today. stimulating growth is the primary objective of the structural funds. all investment-oriented measures should be supported, which directly implies a recovery of the labour market. it also appears necessary to reduce red tape, further simplify the rules and increase flexibility and transparency in the management of funds.
in writing. − the task of cohesion policy is to bridge the economic and social gaps between member states. to achieve this, it shall support actions to develop infrastructure, increase competitiveness, employment, promote research and innovation and territorial cooperation. these are actions of great importance for the eu's regions, especially the poorest ones. the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 implies some tightening of the rules, which is causing difficulties for regional budgets. the limitation of local authority capacity is already a fact today, in the era of the ongoing economic crisis. additional requirements and restrictions will only aggravate the situation and prevent financing of both ongoing and future investments. we need to amend the rules to allow regions to receive and use structural funds and to give local authorities more flexibility in choosing the most innovative projects that benefit the area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs ermina mazzoni because i think it is comprehensive and substantive. the member states are currently being forced to make far-reaching savings. as a result, regional and local authorities are confronted with declining investment on the one hand and growing demand for social benefits on the other. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i stressed the need to take action to support local and regional authorities in their pro-investment and pro-employment initiatives. i agree with the rapporteur who stresses the special role of cohesion policy as an instrument for implementing a growth strategy. work on simplifying procedures and increasing the availability of the structural funds needs to continue. i also believe that the regions should be fully involved in the programming, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the funds. this approach will allow for a more efficient use of cohesion policy funds.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. my group supports the position of the rapporteur, mrs češková. she agrees that the council should not have been discharged. sensitive points are the finding of a shortcoming in the application of the selection and award criteria. the rapporteur recalls in her report the main objections of the court of auditors which concerned the tendering procedures the measures recommended were appropriate control tools, better guidelines, more rigorous application of public procurement rules. the purchase of the residence palace building is also exciting. the rapporteur requests detailed explanations of the funds spent for this purpose and the purpose of the building. i think this concern is justified, not least because the cost of building this building, which in 2005 was estimated at eur 240 million, has increased by one third. today, it is almost 330 million euros. these are serious sums and i think that the explanations are fully justified here. parliament's role in granting discharge is also called into question. the council interprets the right to discharge differently. in our opinion, he's avoiding cooperation with parliament, and certainly not giving information. the rapporteur also suggests that lists of documents to be exchanged between the institutions could contribute to better cooperation between the council and the european parliament in the future, so that the discharge process can be more efficient and both institutions can fulfil their respective roles. the lithuanian presidency is pleased to declare its readiness to cooperate. hopefully, this will be the breakthrough in our practice.
today's discussion concerns the execution of the council's budget for 2011. the implementation of this budget raises a great many concerns, particularly as regards the tendering procedures. i'd like to ask you something else. the 2014-2020 budget is currently being finalised in parliament. i would therefore like to ask what conclusions can be drawn from parliament's criticism of the council budget? what's going to change? what are the savings and is there a chance that the tendering procedures will become more readable? the point is not just to criticise the council, but above all to answer the question whether it is constructive criticism or a stream of words from which little is derived.
in writing. violence affects women regardless of age, education, wealth or social status. several million european women experience it every day. the european parliament and ngos, including the women's sejm of the left, which i co-organised and which was attended by 3 000 polish women, call for the council of europe convention of 11 may 2011 on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence to be signed and ratified as soon as possible. the convention recognises that women and girls are more vulnerable to violence than men and boys, but it is intended to apply to all victims of domestic violence, regardless of gender. so far, only five countries have signed the convention. the signing of the convention creates a legal framework to prevent violence against women. the convention provides a set of practical tools to help victims of violence, such as 24-hour emergency telephone services, legal aid and a network of shelters for victims of violence, and electronic surveillance of perpetrators. currently, only 12 eu member states guarantee funding for specialised support services for women victims of violence. however, there are no proper standards for such services. only four member states have introduced a definition of domestic violence based on the socio-cultural category of gender identity into their criminal codes. protection orders have been improperly implemented in many countries.
mr. chairman, please! china's rapidly growing economy places the middle kingdom firmly at the forefront of global exporters. we also consistently record an increase in trade between china and the community. last year, it was over 400 billion euros. chinese products are flooding europe, and the imbalance in bilateral trade relations is strongly favouring beijing. the interest of the union economy is expressed by the need to establish uniform conditions for the cooperation of undertakings. european investors operating in china regularly encounter procedural and tariff barriers. trade liberalization in this country leaves much to be desired. the dramatically low credibility of the judiciary and the low level of intellectual property rights raise legitimate concerns. the investment agreement must take into account the interests of european companies both operating in china and competing with chinese products on the community market. i would also like to draw particular attention to consumer protection issues. the widespread availability of low-quality goods, often including health hazards, is a major cause of this.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i would like to ask mr belder, who was speaking on trade, and we are debating on investment, whether he is not distinguishing between the two issues, because they seem to be two different issues?
mr. chairman, please! commissioner, it's good that you've submitted this draft agreement, i'm in favour of it being concluded. i would just like to make a brief reference to the question of reciprocity, legal protection, transparent rules of procedure. before the vote, commissioner, i would like to ask you to dispel any doubt that this agreement will really serve the european union's expansion into global markets, and not the transfer of production from the european union to china in order to import the finished product. and my second question, and the point i want to make, is this about access to the mainland chinese market or the chinese investment market? if the latter, do we automatically have the right to participate in the chinese investment market in, say, africa, because we know that there are already big investments there and there are more coming?
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that in some countries we are dealing with the killing of born and unborn girls because of their gender. it has long been known that this phenomenon occurs in countries like china and india. and the reasons for such difficult decisions are well known. we can condemn this phenomenon, but we must be aware that each of these decisions is motivated in some way in the region. the burden of dowry, the lack of guaranteed old-age care, or the greater chance of finding a job are the reasons for the poor people in china, india, vietnam. we can condemn them, we can disagree with them, but we have to be aware of their existence. they show how difficult the problem is that we have to face. the main motivation behind the elimination of girls is economic problems. it is not excluded that the improvement in the material situation will automatically translate into a weakening of the scale of this phenomenon, as is the case in south korea. although the union has little room for manoeuvre, it should direct its activities to countries close to us in culture and geography. gender selection is also seen in countries seeking to join the union, such as georgia, albania and kosovo. we have the instruments to deal with them and they should be used to counter this phenomenon.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i am sure that some of you in this room and in this house have also visited taiwan a few months ago. and what did i see? first of all, i saw that this is a democratic country. i met with representatives of the two main political parties, which is a confirmation that there is a normal democracy, normal political competition, normal democratic elections. and i want to emphasize that because not all countries in asia have these kinds of rules. and what i saw, of course, was incredibly advanced technology and an incredibly advanced economy. many of you have spoken here today about relations with the people's republic of china. i think it's worth considering some facts from the last dozen months. now every day - this was not possible before - dozens of planes from the people's republic of china land in taipei, and planes from taiwan land in shanghai, beijing and other cities in china. today, tens of thousands of chinese from the people's republic of china visit taiwan. taiwanese companies have been investing billions of dollars in the people's republic of china for several years. we say in europe today that the people's republic of china is the world's largest exporter, but if you look at the list of the top ten exporters from the people's republic of china, seven of those, including the top five companies, are taiwanese companies that have invested technology and money in the people's republic of china. we have to consider that. the european union must also strengthen its economic relations with taiwan, because this is an opportunity for both taiwan and the union.
madam president! taiwan has expressed its willingness to negotiate a bilateral trade agreement. the growing volume of our trade with china means that even though it is not recognized as a sovereign country, it should be the focus of our attention. economic relations with beijing should not be pursued at the expense of taipei, especially given the well-developed cooperation between the two. for union investors, the provisions of such an agreement could prove to be highly advantageous, allowing them preferential access to the chinese market. it will provide an alternative or complement to an adequate agreement with beijing. the commission has also provided support to the development of the taiwanese economy through the implementation of the taiwanese development assistance programme (tdap). i'm in favor of deepening our relationship with our taiwanese partner. the commission has also noted that the taiwanese authorities have not provided any evidence that the taiwanese authorities have been able to establish a market economy in the prc.
madam president! i would like to draw attention to the fact that our discussion concerns russia's current discriminatory practices against lithuanian transport. i would point out, however, that this russian practice, which has been repeated from time to time, is not limited to the baltic states. similar penalties and restrictions were also imposed on polish producers and carriers. the restrictions imposed from time to time not only affect transport but also the delivery of agricultural products, transported meat, milk or cheese. in any such case, the union should support the discriminated state. i want to emphasize with all my might that in each of these cases, the whole european commission needs to be active and eu politicians need to be clear. there is no more or less important country in the union.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr malcolm harbour, on the very good work and the compromise reached. the commission's proposal aligns the existing legal regime with safety and environmental requirements, including noise and exhaust emissions. the directive covers a wide variety of recreational craft. it is not just boats, motorboats, sailboats, yachts, but also, for example, much smaller motor-powered pontoons, and it is very important that these units are allowed on the market after meeting the general safety requirements, which is of course crucial from the consumer's point of view. it should be noted that the recreational craft sector is made up of more than 37 000 enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. companies in this sector employ over 270 000 people and all of these will be profoundly affected by this update. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur again on the fact that in his work at imco he has succeeded in clarifying a number of issues, such as definitions. the proposal for a directive required a lot of technical work to improve it. malcolm, i'd like to congratulate you once again and wish you well at the end.
madam president! the un office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs' report on syrian refugees shows that the number of refugees is increasing by leaps and bounds, with more than 5,000 people leaving the syrian border every day. this is a huge problem for the countries in the region, especially lebanon and jordan, where the vast majority of syrians live. i think that the first thing we should focus on is helping refugees, not looking for ways to stop illegal immigration. just put two numbers together: bulgaria, which has recently complained about the massive influx of syrians, has about 3,000 syrian refugees, lebanon has 700,000, and jordan has 500,000. so, is it not worth focusing on helping the neighboring countries in order to prevent further destabilization of the entire middle east? at present, this aid is very limited. only 12 member states are involved. i understand that many countries have huge budgetary problems. but compared to what's happening in syria, or what could happen, these problems are much smaller.
when we talk about the humanitarian catastrophe in syria today, the first thing we have to remember is that it was the long-term lack of political agreement and decision within the united nations, in the security council, that caused this conflict to spread and that more than 100,000 syrians have died. millions of internally displaced syrians and millions of syrians living outside the country need help. this assistance is also necessary in view of the fact that domestic violence also affects minorities, including religious minorities. we have many reports of persecution of christians. we can also see a lot of activity from terrorist groups outside of syria. it destabilizes the internal situation. the two billion euros the union has allocated to aid are not enough - we all agree. what is really needed is a political solution. the syrian people need first of all peace, secondly rule of law and thirdly the right to return to their homes.
madam president! the free movement of workers continues to be hampered by barriers to the recognition of professional qualifications. the main problem is the disparity between the national laws governing these issues. accelerating the process of phasing them out is crucial for increasing the mobility of citizens and its impact on economic growth and the proper functioning of the single market. i see the voluntary electronic professional identification system as a practical solution that could prove to be a very effective way of quick and simple verification. the efficient transmission of the required and reliable information between states will allow both the acceleration of procedures and the adequate protection in the event of revocation of authorisations. transparent rules on language qualifications will also increase consumer and employer confidence. all citizens will benefit from the mobility of highly qualified professionals. it is therefore important that states do not block access to regulated professions.
in writing. i would like to congratulate mrs bernadette vergnaud on her excellent report. i agree that the actions taken under the proposed directive on the recognition of professional qualifications are essential for economic recovery in europe. i am convinced that the introduction of automatic european identity is the key to increasing flexibility in the labour market and an opportunity to improve the functioning of the internal market. it should be borne in mind that the introduction of an efficient system of recognition of professional qualifications will primarily support professional mobility, which is conducive to employment growth in europe. mobility allows workers to upgrade their skills and is therefore a key element in increasing competitiveness in europe. by extending the system of recognition of professional qualifications and simplifying administrative procedures, europe is taking a big step towards an open european labour market and greater social cohesion based on mutual trust.
in writing. since 2005, poland has been seeking recognition of qualifications of polish nurses and midwives on the same terms as in other member states. in 2010, i personally submitted interpellations on this issue to the european commission. approximately 70% of polish nurses, highschool graduates and medical students who obtained their diplomas before 2004 are waiting for the proposed solutions. most of them are well educated, speak foreign languages and have a postgraduate diploma. these are people who, in many cases, are already working abroad, in the european union, as assistants or carers. the continuation of the current situation on the european market, which excludes nurses trained under the previous system of training, would undermine the essence of the union market. once the directive is adopted, they will be able to start working as full-time nurses. the requirement of uniformity in the recognition of qualifications and equal access to the labour market is therefore highly justified. the proposed changes will undoubtedly contribute to the unification of the european market, which will facilitate the free movement of polish citizens and will make them more likely to work better and feel that their education is no less than that obtained by citizens of other eu countries.
mr. chairman, please! i'd like to know why, after the 79th amendment was passed, the 126th amendment was not dropped, but put to a vote? we have it written here that the 79th amendment was passed, the 126th amendment is dropped.
in writing. - the epp group supports the position of mrs češková. we agree that the council should not have been discharged. weaknesses were found in the application of the selection and award criteria. the report recalls the court's main concerns, which concerned tender procedures the actions recommended were appropriate control tools, better guidelines, and more rigorous application of public procurement rules. the purchase of the residence palace is unnecessary and incomprehensible, especially since the construction costs of the building, which in 2005 were estimated at eur 240 million, have increased by one third. today, it is almost 330 million euros. these are serious amounts and i think that's where the explanations are fully valid.
in writing. - the directive in question concerns issues related to shale gas extraction, which remains a strategic energy objective for my country. i am concerned that the proposed provisions are in effect stopping investment in shale in the community countries. so the question is, whose interest is it? these solutions are a threat to the eu economy, contrary to the energy security strategy and to europe's competitiveness. above all, they are contrary to the interests of citizens, depriving households of the possibility of significantly reducing the cost of energy. i am strongly opposed to the proposal to distinguish between conventional and unconventional drilling. the obligation to carry out a full environmental impact assessment of shale projects at the exploration stage is, in my view, highly detrimental. i recommend that we return to negotiations and continue to work in committee.
in writing. − i consider it extremely important to monitor the environmental impact of investments in the oil and gas sector from unconventional deposits and to subject them to strict procedures at the extraction stage. however, the current shape of the draft amendment to the directive on the assessment of the effects of certain public and private projects on the environment raises a number of concerns, including the obligation for investors to carry out a full environmental impact assessment of shale gas exploration projects using hydraulic fracturing. the amendments voted in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, especially nos 31 and 79, seem to be an attempt to curb the growth of this industry under the pretext of environmental protection! the commission has also proposed that the environmental impact assessment procedure be extended to include the assessment of the environmental impact of the site. the introduction of disproportionate administrative and financial burdens on the oil and gas sector from unconventional deposits will have disastrous consequences for the european and polish economies and will render many energy investments unprofitable. the fact that the negotiating mandate adopted in the ep was adopted by a small margin is encouraging, making it weak in the upcoming negotiations in the eu council. i also hope that the complaint concerning the voting procedure will be dealt with positively, which would allow the amendments which are unfavourable from the point of view of poland's interests to be removed.
in writing. the european parliament voted by a small margin on a proposal for, inter alia, a full environmental impact assessment of shale gas exploration by hydraulic fracturing. i voted against the amendment tabled by the envi committee which tightened the rules on the exploration phase of shale gas. i believe that the imposition of further restrictions and regulations is delaying and delaying the actual extraction of shale gas. i believe that the distinction between conventional and unconventional drilling is designed to make it difficult to extract gas. studies have shown that shale gas is safe, and well-run hydraulic fracturing does not harm the environment. the extraction of shale gas would bring great economic benefits to europe, which is why i am in favour of streamlining the process rather than introducing further regulations and rules that are difficult for investors to comply with.
in writing. − the current directive covered projects with a production capacity of at least 500 000 m3 of shale gas per day. in future, a full environmental impact assessment is to be mandatory for all projects related to the extraction and exploration of unconventional hydrocarbons (shale gas and oil, coalbed methane, etc.), including shale gas projects, when hydraulic fracturing technology is used, regardless of the size of the production. the environmental impact assessment (eia) directive covers a wide range of projects, both public and private. it lays down the criteria for the project, including the information that must be provided to the national authorities for the project to be accepted. i am in favour of environmental protection and sustainable development, but i cannot accept that the same criteria apply to exploration and research as to the regular exploitation of the resource. i also have reservations about the voting procedure itself, which was not clear to everyone, in particular the automatically invalidated amendments.
in writing. − a report on the assessment of the environmental impact of certain public and private projects is important and necessary. unfortunately, the regulations that were in it, which de facto restricted the search for hydrocarbons from shale, made it impossible for me to support it in this form. it should be stressed that these provisions were not the intention of the european commission and are not justified by environmental considerations, and moreover, they concern only parts of the member states. the exploration of alternative hydrocarbons can be a chance to reduce co2 emissions and support the economy. political acts cannot be allowed to take away this opportunity from countries that would like to take advantage of it.
in writing. - i voted against it. the amendment to the environmental impact assessment directive proposed by the european commission was designed to simplify and streamline the directive. we were supposed to learn quickly about the risks of investing in order to decide whether it was worth expanding. the commission's original proposal was designed to reduce red tape and improve environmental protection. instead of this noble goal, the environmental protection committee has added a lot of bureaucratic regulations that will make it difficult to develop investment projects in europe. these adjustments mean additional costs and delays in processes that are already long. it should also be borne in mind that member states have their own procedures. the new rules introduced by meps are an example of such new rules on shale gas. they do environmental impact assessments at the early exploration stage, before we even know if shale gas is present in a particular location. but it's clear that there's no point in doing an environmental impact assessment if it turns out that shale gas isn't there and we're not going to extract it. the new amendment is political in nature, as one of my colleagues admitted in the debate, and is aimed at blocking the development of shale gas in europe. the amendment cannot help to assess the environmental risk associated with shale gas extraction.
in writing. − the future of the european union's climate and energy policy is a matter of wide controversy. in response to climate change, europe is working to develop and promote new renewable energy technologies. i support this trend as it is an expression of concern for the environment and a tool to support technological innovation. however, countries like poland see their chance of reducing emissions, becoming more energy independent and lowering energy prices in unconventional fossil fuels such as shale gas. poland is currently trying to assess the state of its oil reserves and the potential for their extraction, which has also been authorised by the european parliament. i naturally support the need for a thorough environmental impact assessment of all mining projects. before we decide to exploit the resources, we must carefully examine whether this activity will have a negative impact on the local nature or public health. unfortunately, the european parliament's report went too far, burdening the complex legal, administrative and technological work with the sole purpose of exploring the deposits. this is not justified in limiting the negative environmental impact of these activities and may effectively hamper any work on the possibility of shale gas extraction in poland. the european parliament cannot take away the right of the poles to do so. for these reasons, i could not support the report presented.
in writing. − this report modernises the current safety regulations, while also addressing the environmental impact of motor boats. first of all, precise definitions and categories of these units have been introduced. the market surveillance procedures have been strengthened to verify the requirements for manufacturers and distributors. with regard to environmental issues, the emission ceilings for marine engines have been significantly raised, while a balanced transition period for changes has been guaranteed. the noise emission limits have been specified. the new requirements for on-board sewage tanks and wastewater treatment systems should also help to reduce environmental risks. the main advantage is that the rules are aligned with, among others, us and japanese requirements, which means the same standards for the use of recreational craft.
in writing. − there are several million recreational craft in the eu and their placing on the market should be subject to current regulations, including safety requirements; the commission proposal is just adapting the existing legal regime to safety and environmental requirements, including noise and exhaust emissions. the directive covers a wide variety of recreational craft. it is not just boats, motorboats, sailboats, yachts, but also, for example, much smaller motor-powered pontoons, and it is very important that these units are only allowed on the market after they have met the general safety requirements, which is of course crucial from the consumer's point of view. it should be noted that the recreational craft sector is made up of more than 37 000 enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. companies in this sector employ over 270 000 people and all of these will be profoundly affected by this update. i supported today's proposal for a directive because it clarifies the rules in this area, thereby providing greater security and legal certainty for both businesses and consumers.
in writing. − i supported this report because it seeks to modernise existing rules on safety and environmental performance requirements for watercraft designed for private use. it includes important changes to the existing legislation, among them clearer definitions and revised boat design categories, revised obligations for economic operators (manufacturers, importers, distributors) and notified bodies and strengthened market surveillance procedures which are now aligned to the new legal framework used in europe; and modernised safety requirements including emergency stopping devices for outboard engines, electrical systems and batteries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a recreational craft directive because as a member of the tran committee i was involved in preparing an opinion on this subject. i think it is appropriate to indicate in the report the need to change the limits for engine exhaust emissions, whereas it is technically impossible at present to introduce limits that are too strict. secondly, in the context of the new noise limits, i was in favour of keeping them at the current level, as further reductions would require a significant rebuilding of existing power units. it is also appropriate to leave national regulations with more restrictive limits, such as speed limits, minimum distance from shore or prohibition of boat movement in specific areas, depending on the specificities of the country.
mr. chairman, please! i supported the amendment of the qualifications directive because it opens up new possibilities. firstly, it simplifies the process of recognition of qualifications; secondly, it provides clear, unambiguous minimum conditions for education. it also provides legal certainty in the recognition of qualifications and the possibility of obtaining a european professional card. in addition, it provides for a warning mechanism in case certain persons are found not to meet the qualification requirements. but above all, this regulation removes an injustice, because it recognizes the qualifications of a large group of nurses, including those from my country. it took 10 years to get this revision done and to recognize the qualifications that were rightly recognized in this change. and i think that's an important part of a certain kind of justice. some nurses did not reach this stage and completed their education, including by paying for retraining from their own income. it turns out that this was important to them personally, but also that they incurred such costs because of the european regulations in force at the time.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament adopted a report on the recognition of professional qualifications today. i voted for this document because it contains a number of solutions to facilitate and improve the recognition of qualifications. the introduction of the european skills card, the improvement of access to information for workers and the introduction of minimum education requirements for certain professions have made it much easier to access the labour market within the european union. i am particularly pleased to see the recognition of professional qualifications of polish nurses who, before poland joined the european union, had completed medical school and, despite their vast knowledge and experience, were not covered by the system of automatic recognition of qualifications. this ends a ten-year dispute over the case. i'm very happy about that, and i'm sure the polish nurses are very happy about that.
in writing. − in a time of economic crisis across europe, i regard the adoption by the european parliament of a directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and administrative cooperation through the internal market information system as a great success. through a number of innovative solutions, it will increase the mobility of eu citizens and facilitate their taking up work abroad, especially in countries facing a growing demand for skilled personnel in the health, education and construction sectors. the document ends a long-standing dispute over the recognition of qualifications for many occupational groups in the eu, and makes the process simpler and faster, mainly thanks to the electronic information exchange system (imi) between member states. the provisions of the directive which was voted on cover issues such as the voluntary introduction of the european professional card for selected professions, partial access to a profession allowing access to work abroad in accordance with the education or training received, or updating of minimum training requirements. the early warning system for the medical professions is also an important solution, which will allow for effective fraud detection in the event of a loss of the right to practise in one of the member states. the adoption of this directive is of particular importance for nurses and midwives in poland who are graduates of medical schools or medical studies, whose qualifications will be recognised on the same basis in this professional group throughout the european union.
in writing. − the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications is a key document for the internal market, as it will increase the mobility of europeans. freedom of movement within the european union can be achieved if qualifications acquired in one country are recognised quickly and efficiently in other eu countries. the european professional card or the updating of minimum training requirements will help to achieve this, as will better cooperation between member states through the wider use of the internal market information exchange system. the directive will not only make it easier to find work in the internal market, but is of particular importance for polish nurses and midwives, who have until now had to meet special, additional requirements in terms of recognition of qualifications. today's vote is the culmination of my many years of work, in which i have stressed that these requirements are not justified, because all nurses in poland are treated equally and as nurses they perform the same professional activities and have the same competences. the polish demands were accepted today and as a result polish nurses and midwives will be treated in the same way as all other nurses from other eu countries. the new rules offer an opportunity to find work faster and to make better use of the opportunities of the internal market.
in writing. − in times of ongoing financial, economic and social crisis, action is needed to stimulate entrepreneurship and innovation, where job mobility can be a lifeline for many, especially young people, affected by unemployment. although the legal framework on this issue has existed since the 1970s and the possibility for workers to move is a key means of reducing unemployment, difficulties in this area are still felt due to the lack of clarity on the rules for the recognition of professional qualifications. it is therefore essential to simplify the procedures for citizens wishing to take up employment in another member state by creating an appropriate legal framework, while ensuring a high level of safety for consumers, patients, workers and all eu citizens. the european professional card in the form of an electronic certificate will contribute to a significant improvement in the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications, enabling professionals to provide services without having to meet additional formal requirements.
in writing. − i believe that professional mobility is fundamental to competitiveness and employment in europe. i voted in favour of this report because i support aims to speed up and simplify the recognition process of qualified professionals throughout the eu to enhance mobility and growth, while making sure essential safety checks are in place for health professionals. i agree completely that the fundamental right to freedom of movement is still not regarded as self-evident, and this legislative proposal must play a part in changing that by simplifying the procedures which people wishing to work in another country have to complete. i applaud all efforts to improve communication between member states, which generates mutual trust and allows all eu professionals to live and work wherever they choose.
in writing. − freedom of movement and of occupation is one of the fundamental rights of every eu citizen. mobility is not only a value in itself, but also a condition for competitiveness and a tool to combat unemployment in europe. this is why it is so important to ensure that it is implemented in practice and to put in place concrete solutions to implement it. at present, the right to move, although it is a legal right - we have schengen and the right to work in any eu country - is severely restricted by the lack of simple and clear rules governing the recognition of professional qualifications. only a few professions have the possibility of automatic recognition of qualifications, and even in these cases the procedures are not always clear. often, the actual recognition of qualifications depends only on the arbitrary decision of the potential employer. it's not supposed to be like this. it is therefore necessary to introduce a new regulation to eliminate those shortcomings. the problem is not only the very existence of differences in education, employment, health care, consumer protection, etc., but also, and perhaps most of all, the ignorance of these differences. citizens, not knowing what to expect, often prefer not to take risks, which has a negative impact on the mobility of workers. this in turn leads to a reduction in competitiveness and a situation where there is a shortage of workers in one country and a shortage of jobs in another in the same sector.
in writing. − i thank the rapporteur for the report on the recognition of professional qualifications and administrative cooperation through the internal market information exchange system. this resolution will undoubtedly contribute to the opening up of the labour market, particularly for professions such as doctors, nurses, dentists, pharmacists, etc. the european professional card allows professional documents and qualifications to be recognised outside the country of residence. this process will undoubtedly contribute to the free exchange of specialists and experience. the key task is also to facilitate the work of the administration. however, it should be ensured that the requirements for the process of applying for such an authorisation are clear, understandable and generally available in different languages to all applicants.
in writing. − the introduction of visa facilitation with armenia, as well as with other developing countries and democracies, is crucial for the implementation of the eastern partnership project or similar partnership and cooperation agreements. through the provisions that open borders, we allow the citizens of these countries free access to cultural and economic exchange. it is also an indispensable tool for building democracy and shaping civil society. the point is in the recent developments in the political arena and the signing of the customs union between armenia and russia. to avoid russian domination in this politically unstable region, we need to do more to ensure good and close relations with countries like armenia and the others in the region: georgia, moldova, azerbaijan. the agreement, which will help citizens to strengthen their human ties and exchange intellectual and economic capital, will therefore allow closer relations and integration with the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because this agreement will make it easier and cheaper for citizens of armenia (especially those who travel most frequently) to acquire short-stay visas which would allow them to travel freely throughout the eu. i believe that the citizens of our european neighbours, especially those from the eastern partnership, should be allowed to travel and undertake academic studies in the eu and this process is the best tool of european integration that we have.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported, like the other ppe group representatives, the draft resolution on the health claim on carbohydrates. i am of the opinion that it would be possible to achieve the opposite effect to the objectives of the basic act by allowing that statement only in specific conditions of application. such authorisation could also promote and encourage the consumption of foods containing sugars other than those naturally present in the food. such labelling of products is, in my view, a contradictory and unclear message for consumers, especially in the context of national dietary recommendations to reduce sugar intake. i think the average consumer is increasingly looking at the product groups that provide the body with the nutrients it needs. however, with the wide variety of foods available on the food market today, particularly processed foods, it is becoming increasingly difficult to make healthy choices that meet individual nutritional needs. the information on the label should therefore help to inform consumers quickly about the health value of a given foodstuff, rather than creating confusion, which the draft regulation submitted to parliament can help to do. the rejection of the resolution is therefore a clear signal to all of us that we should do even more to raise food awareness in the european union by providing consumers with proper and reliable information on the specific characteristics of food products.
mr. chairman, please! one of the major causes of the imbalance in the eu-china relationship is the numerous restrictions imposed on european businesses wishing to invest in the middle east. the eu has also been active in the fight against money laundering, which is a major source of fraud, and has been a key driver of the eu's financial and economic growth. if we realise that one of the few assets europe has is know-how, we can see the scale of the problem. investing in china often means giving our partners in china the unique know-how that our companies have developed. in addition, there is limited access to the chinese public procurement market and numerous trade barriers imposed by the chinese central and regional authorities. as a result, nearly 50% of european businesses investing in china have experienced some form of discrimination, and the scale of this phenomenon is increasing year by year. the commission should therefore make every effort to ensure that the negotiated agreement is as precise as possible, that it is able to safeguard the interests of european businesses and that its provisions can be fully enforced. those were the reasons why i decided to vote for this document.
in writing. − the eu and china have grown steadily and dynamically over the past 30 years, reaching a record total trade volume of eur 433.8 billion in 2012, but since 1997 there has been a trade imbalance in china's favour. following the 2012 eu-china summit in beijing, the european commission asked member states to accept its negotiating guidelines for an investment agreement with the people's republic of china. these guidelines concerned investment protection and market access. the main emphasis in the draft resolution was that the agreement should not include investments in special zones that allow workers' rights requirements to be circumvented and labour standards and other laws not to be respected, nor should it promote the production of goods in laogai labour camps and their export from china to the eu. in addition, the draft calls for china to allow other legal arrangements for foreign investors in addition to joint ventures, combined with due protection of intellectual property rights, industrial property rights, trademarks and geographical indications of products, so that they can establish enterprises in the chinese market. i voted with the ecr group in favour of the resolution because it calls for greater openness and transparency in china's business and for fair competition.
in writing. − china is playing and will continue to play an increasingly important role in the global economy, making it one of the eu's most important partners in this field. because of the fundamental cultural differences between china and europe, this cooperation faces many serious problems, such as china's failure to respect certain human rights that are fundamental to european culture. china is both a partner and a rival, and it's not something that's going to change anytime soon, because it's a situation that goes back thousands of years. however, where possible, through mutual dialogue, we should seek to deepen cooperation and narrow the range of issues on which we differ. it is important that any negotiations with china take place at eu level, not at the level of individual member states. in the face of a powerful partner like china, it is the united voice of all eu countries that has the power to make a difference. only in this way can we have a dialogue as equals, which is a key element of fruitful cooperation. the agreement currently being negotiated, which is intended to replace the individual bilateral agreements that have been in place until now, is therefore of great importance. importantly, the eu is seen as a neutral partner of china (as opposed to, say, the us), and china-eu economic cooperation dates back to the 1970s. it's worth continuing this good, though not always easy, tradition.
in writing. − i thank the rapporteur for reporting on the eu's negotiations with china on a bilateral investment agreement. as is well known, china is the eu's largest trading partner. the two sides have also been engaged in a dialogue on human rights for many years. this report has addressed a very important issue, namely the respect of labour rights and the preservation of fair competition. the key here is that investors pay particular attention to these issues when concluding contracts, with an emphasis on both labour standards and regulations. the conclusion of an investment agreement with china is an opportunity to improve both the economic and political situation, which would facilitate negotiations and discussions on the respect of human rights in the country. the standards must also be strictly adhered to so that intervention is possible in the event of non-compliance. in addition, it is necessary to emphasize the need to block certain divisions in order to protect our market from cheap products from china. i'm thinking here primarily about the footwear industry.
in writing. − i wholeheartedly voted in favour of this resolution. i have brought this issue to the commission’s attention in several of my written questions. the eu is taiwan’s biggest source of foreign direct investment. the eu held 31.5% of all fdi flows and 21% in fdi stocks in taiwan in 2010. taiwan is eu’s 7th largest trading partner in asia, and the eu’s 23rd largest trading partner in the world. the eu must give a positive response to taiwan’s willingness to launch negotiations for bilateral agreements on investment protection and market access in order to further strengthen the legal certainty of investments, and increase our volume and quality of investment flows.
in writing. − the commission resolution called on the european union to respond positively to taiwan's readiness to negotiate a bilateral agreement on investment protection and market access. the aim of these negotiations is to increase legal certainty for investment and to increase the volume and quality of trade between the european union and taiwan. the european parliament welcomed the improvement in relations between taiwan and china. this improvement resulted in the conclusion of 19 trade and economic agreements between the straits exchange foundation on behalf of taiwan and the association for relations across the taiwan straits on behalf of the prc. the commission resolution also called for the inclusion of a corporate social responsibility clause and social and environmental clauses as part of the sustainable development chapter (in the event of an effective conclusion of the agreement). i voted with the ecr group for a bilateral agreement between the european union and taiwan. the reason for my decision is that the european union is the main source of direct investment in taiwan. the eu is the 7th largest trading partner of the eu in asia and the 23rd largest trading partner of the eu in the world. since 2010, the eu has accounted for 31,5% of total foreign direct investment turnover and 21% of the value of this foreign direct investment in taiwan.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on eu-taiwan trade relations. we must not be blind to the growing trade between the eu and taiwan. as the motion for a resolution stipulates, there is still potential to improve and i feel obliged to support our efforts to make trade with taiwan easier and cheaper. we are still fighting the crisis and in my opinion good partnership with our trade partners can be a main tool to handle this. today taiwan is known as one of the ‘asian tigersʼ. its economy is still growing with a 4 % rise in gdp every year and is based on high-technology production. the eu needs to continue to cooperate with such partners. growing trade with taiwan could act as a driver for domestic producers to innovate their production and make it more efficient. cooperation with taiwan is proof that the eu and trade organisations, for instance the wto, can work with each other successfully and benefit from it at the same time. we have to take care of such relations because we are now part of a globalised world.
in writing. - thank you to the rapporteur for presenting the report on eu-taiwan trade relations. the key issue is the inclusion of taiwan as an important country in the eu's trade partnership. however, it must not be forgotten that the priority is to look after internal interests. it is therefore satisfactory that there is a mutual possibility to ensure the safety and well-being of national interests. it is important not only to take account of the whole process of trade, but also to pay attention to the respect of labour law and the quality of the imported goods for the european market.
in writing. - in today's vote, i voted against the resolution. i am confident that the new rules will keep pilots awake at the controls, help reduce fatigue in aircrew and have a positive impact on the safety of our air travel. i'm glad that the safety argument has been put before the social argument. at present, pilot hours can be as high as 26 hours in some member states, while in others they are as low as 14 hours. as a passenger, i don't want to have to wonder what nationality the pilot is and whether he'll fall asleep before landing.
according to reports by un organizations, the situation of syrian refugees is becoming dramatic. moreover, humanitarian aid is facing increasing difficulties inside syria. tensions between the international powers are not conducive to improving the living conditions of the citizens. the fundamental problem is the huge number of people recognised as refugees, which is already a major burden for specialised aid agencies and, above all, for neighbouring countries. in the meantime, many syrians are making attempts to cross into the community, and this requires us to take concrete action. in solidarity, a number of member states have already decided to make a certain number of places available, and this should be welcomed. the union's financial assistance needs to be stepped up, especially in view of the need to provide international support to countries hosting the largest number of refugees. we must also continue our diplomatic efforts to end the conflict.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on measures taken by the eu and its member states to stem the flow of refugees from the conflict in syria. it raises, inter alia, the need for humanitarian assistance, points to the need for solidarity among eu member states and a more coherent approach to the syrian refugee problem, expresses the need to support humanitarian efforts by syria's neighbouring countries and calls for a humanitarian conference to address the crisis of the growing influx of syrian refugees. the background to the debate on the resolution was the recent events in the area of lampedusa, which shocked the whole of europe with the deaths of african immigrants. this incident, and many others of a similar nature, reinforces my belief that open-door policy or financial means are not everything! the €1 billion in aid that member states are providing to syria is out of proportion to the scale of the need and it is impossible to cap it! africa needs our commitment, not just in terms of financial aid or open borders, which many politicians talk about lightly. has this solved any of the continent's problems? i therefore call for openness, not so much of borders as openness to people who are migrants, and for a community approach to the eu in effectively delivering multi-dimensional aid to africa.
in writing. - as a result of the fighting and persecution in syria, more than 2 million people have been forced to flee their homes. most of them sought refuge in neighbouring countries, especially lebanon, jordan, turkey and iraq. many of these countries have their own problems, and the need to care for so many needy ones is a great burden. i believe that the european union should do everything in its power to help refugees who are still in syria or waiting in other countries in the region to return to their homeland. the eu has so far committed €1 billion for humanitarian aid, and parliament calls for even greater efforts to help those affected by the civil war. that's why i voted to pass the resolution.
in writing. - i have long called for the establishment of demilitarised zones along the borders, as part of a tripartite agreement between the rebels and the military, where humanitarian aid can be easily delivered. a similar camp was established between the turkish border and the city of azaz. it's working. unfortunately, it's been controlled by radical islamic rebels for a long time, who have been withholding some of the humanitarian aid. the first thing we need to do is to protect the migrants in turkey, jordan and lebanon from the coming winter and to ensure their safety. those are the key points.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the situation of the roma people (2013/2870(rsp).
mr morganti, i am sorry to say but you went too far i think in your speech. however, we are having an open parliamentary debate.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 149)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the rise of right-wing extremism in europe (2013/2871(rsp)).
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, right-wing extremism is a red herring. those who speak about it use two strategies. the first strategy is what i call the breivik strategy. they take an atrocious act of a mentally unbalanced loner and present it as a part of a larger whole. i remember a prominent mep making an outrageous statement that the critics of the eu are among breivik’s godfathers. the second strategy is a knee-jerk association with adolf hitler. if anything threatens europe, it is the ghost of lenin rather than the ghost of hitler, because the political mainstream has been hijacked by the radical left. the leftist ideology is being imposed by the governments: priests and mayors are forced to perform homosexual marriages against their will and conscience; hospitals are forced to perform abortions; pro-family demonstrators are treated brutally by police; minister peillon is trying to replace christianity with republican religion. during the last six months we have had about a dozen churches burned, set fire to and vandalised. we had the belgian archbishop physically attacked by pro-abortion lesbians. we had an opposition politician in poland assassinated and the leader of the opposition receiving death threats. we had respectable statesmen vilified in this chamber and outside it by leftist fanatics. we had germans, soi-disant anti-fascists, attacking peaceful demonstrators in warsaw. all this is radical leftism at its worst – in part condoned, in part inspired and in part serenely tolerated. we will experience more of it once a new crusade against so-called right-wing extremism is launched. check the facts and control your zeal, madam commissioner.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you get away with this. i'm not going to let you do this. i appreciate your concern, but i'd like to ask you if you've read the title of our debate correctly. the debate title refers to alleged transportation and detention. no investigation has been completed in any of the states. the investigation is ongoing. so i would like to ask you if you do not think it would be more responsible to say that these are alleged transports, alleged detentions, rather than stating facts that have not been proven by the legal system of any of the eu countries.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have great respect for your intelligence, but i would like to ask you, madam president, because you have just described cooperation between the special services of the european union and the central intelligence agency of the united states as criminal activity, and i believe that this cooperation is based on intergovernmental agreements, what do you consider to be criminal or criminal activity in this area?
mr. chairman, please! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the question calls on the council to respond by not authorising the intelligence agencies to adopt powers of arrest and detention. the council - as we have heard - has no competence in this respect. everyone in this house is in favour of respect for human rights. in the first paragraph of the separate, shortest and best resolution proposed by the cor, we state that effective counter-terrorism measures and respect for human rights are not incompatible. if we are going to interfere instrumentally in the way we deal with terrorists, i would like to ask formally what practical effects have been achieved by the action of the eu institutions in the fight against terrorism? do we keep on asking questions and passing resolutions?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. there is no doubt that any violations, if any, should be clarified in the context of the war on terror. and if you look at what's happening in the countries that are involved in this war, both in our continent and in the united states, you can see that there are investigations going on in the courts, there are sentences, and if the law enforcement agencies were able to document the charges and put them on trial, whether they were soldiers or agents, the sentences are very harsh. i am sure that the same will be true of the alleged secret prisons in the european union. i would like to make it clear that in poland, the country mentioned in the resolution, the proceedings are being conducted by a prosecutor's office independent of the government, which is acting according to its own plan of investigation and, i am convinced, with a good will to clarify any allegations and suspicions. this is not an easy procedure, and it should be clearly stated. many issues are covered by the secrecy clause, and much evidence is outside the territory of the republic of poland. the allegations of lack of transparency made by the authors of the resolution are, in my view, incomprehensible in this context. i think that the assessment of the actions of the judicial authorities of the individual member states contained in the text of the resolution is of a doubtful nature. these are matters which, as the council representative has said, fall within the exclusive competence of national governments. if we do not amend the text of the resolution to remove direct references to the activities of the judiciary, courts and prosecutors of the member states, i fear that neither i nor my colleagues in the delegation will be able to support this resolution. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i was present at the hearings that took place a few years ago in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, where indeed the situation in individual countries was analysed in great detail. as for poland, even independent experts and observers admitted that this is a country whose prosecutor's office acts with the will to clarify the issue. even if there have been - because there have been - alleged victims' lawyers or even representatives of independent organisations making allegations about transparency, i would just like to remind you of one thing: we are dealing with an investigation that involves a matter covered by a confidentiality clause, and therefore the demand for full disclosure unfortunately cannot often be met, not because of a lack of will, but because of the regulations that are in force in this matter.
mr. chairman, please! the proposed draft resolution contains several elements which i find unacceptable. i find particularly reprehensible the insinuations about the alleged lack of transparency of the polish investigation into this case. first, i would like to recall that matters of national security and the activities of special services are the exclusive competence of the member states. i would also like to stress that an independent and legally-based judiciary in poland is conducting an independent investigation into this matter. therefore, political pressure on this issue is unacceptable. the investigation is ongoing and its completion depends not only on the efficiency of the polish prosecution, but above all on the fact that the conduct of an evidentiary inquiry is hampered by the fact that most of the documents are in the possession of the us and are often covered by a confidentiality clause. while i appreciate the basis and the importance of this debate, i must make it clear that protecting our citizens is our paramount responsibility. in the debate, we often forget that terrorism is the biggest threat to the security of citizens in the european union today, and that is why we must do everything we can to defend our freedoms and our values. innocent citizens are being targeted by various terrorist groups, who are using increasingly cruel and unconventional methods. in response, we are obliged to make every effort to prevent and combat them. of course, this must happen, and we must act within the bounds of the law and respect human rights.
mr. chairman, please! i fully agree with the rapporteur and with ms gomez on one point: we should fight human rights violations and we should fight terrorism against prisoners. we're all agreed on that. but we are not in agreement on one thing, namely that press reports or statements by captured terrorists can be sufficient grounds for a body as serious as the european parliament to adopt appropriate resolutions. in this document - and we have spoken about this many times today - the issue of the investigation in poland was raised. i can confirm, as can mr wałęsa and mr protasiewicz, that the investigation in poland is ongoing, and is being conducted by the prosecutor's office in krakow, which is the highest level prosecutor's office. this investigation could be over by the end of october, so not for long. it therefore seems that all international bodies should first give the national authorities the opportunity, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, to complete their investigations and to deliver final judgments in this case. and one more thing: at the time when these things happened, there was a leftist government in poland. both president kwaśniewski, then prime minister miller and interior minister kalisz - activists of the european left - deny that such prisons exist in poland.
i would like to draw attention to the fact that every day there are dramatic situations at the borders of the european union. every day also shows that we still have serious problems with ensuring the integrity of these borders. the report and the regulation are intended to change this situation. however, i would like to draw attention to a certain philosophy of this document. we put a strong emphasis on improving cooperation and coordination between eu member states, and this is undoubtedly right and necessary. however, i think that much more attention should be paid to the european union's cooperation with non-eu countries. if there is no improvement, i do not think we can talk about successes in the fight against organised crime, in the fight against human trafficking, in the fight against smuggling of goods and in the protection of migrants.
i think it's a very good thing that we're asking about it, that we're talking about it. why would you do that? one of the key issues is to show that the law and the rules available are being enforced. the awareness of the inevitability of punishment, the awareness that every transnational offence can be identified, is crucial for citizens' attitudes. in this context, all kinds of instruments - legal, information, technical, equipment, services or exchange of information - which can be useful in an investigation are essential. i would like to recommend this to the commission and to the commissioner, because this is how we make our community better and how we can gain the respect of our citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european economic area builds on the free movement of persons and the free movement of goods, services and capital; it extends the community's acquis to countries with a common cultural heritage. as a result, these countries have incorporated a significant part of eu legislation, for example in the field of consumer protection. the european economic area would certainly gain in prestige if switzerland joined. andorra, san marino and monaco also expressed their desire to strengthen their relations. their closer links with brussels would mean deepening the natural bonds of the european family of states. i am in favour of a systematic extension of the single market mechanisms, especially in view of the increasingly widespread trade on the net. an example of fruitful cooperation is the norwegian-coordinated peppol project, a pan-european system designed to facilitate online public procurement in all eea countries. i urge you to consider the possibility of extending the european economic area to turkey. turkey has been associated with the community for half a century, but has not yet gained access to the common market. deeper cooperation would significantly increase europe's security while supporting economic growth. it may be time to examine the functioning of the eea agreement with a view to remedying existing shortcomings and introducing improvements.
i would like to thank commissioner malmström for her reply. i attribute this recognition to the fact that, firstly, you were kind enough to say that the treaty or agreement has been in force for twenty years and needs to be reviewed, and secondly, there are risks at the moment with reciprocal, balanced relations. this is also very important from the point of view of maintaining a certain proportion, because on the one hand we have the european union as a whole, and on the other hand three beautiful countries: andorra, san marino and monaco, which are of a different quality. we want to talk about better market access and i agree with you on this point too: we would like to ensure that we have a proven and secure access to the market of these three countries on the basis of reciprocity and to foresee the effects on the european market. i know that there will be no steel mills or car factories, but capital, the conditions of capital and banking supervision, which you mentioned, are crucial. in conclusion, we must find out whether these three countries want to join the eea, because we do not know that either.
madam president! the internal market offers member states, and therefore their citizens, enormous opportunities. freedom to move, to find a job, to study in any member state of your choice not only makes it easier to find a job, but also stimulates businesses to operate beyond the borders of one member state, thus promoting the self-employment that is so necessary in europe today. the larger internal market also means even greater opportunities for economic development, and we should therefore allow closer relations with countries that express a desire to do so, such as andorra, san marino and monaco. the internal market is of great importance to these countries and its enlargement is certainly a good direction to take, as it creates new opportunities. for this reason, it is very important to work out the best possible options for closer integration of these countries with the european union. the european economic area is an option for closer cooperation, but the conditions under which this takes place should be improved in terms of enforcement of internal market rules. i wonder what aspects of the eea the european commission considers should be improved first, from the perspective of enforcing internal market rules. with the accession of these countries to the eea, internal market rules have become part of their legislation and enforcement of these rules is therefore an important aspect of their proper functioning.
in writing. – caste discrimination is not new. it has been around for centuries. the case of the dalits is so well known that the term ‘the untouchables’ is even a staple of european popular culture. but just because a hate, fear or prejudice has existed for a long time, that does not make it right or acceptable. there was no place for caste discrimination in the 20th century and there certainly should not be any now in the 21st century. the indian constitution is clear on this point. articles 15 and 17 have outlawed and banned such discrimination since 1950. yet to this day, it can be found not only in india but in other southern asian communities worldwide. as the nation that was the first to struggle against caste discrimination, i believe that india should do more to support international measures against it. actions at the united nations and elsewhere are not targeted at the republic of india, but are in fact attempts to help enforce said republicʼs very principles, the fundamental principle that all indian citizens are equal. india should indeed be a light against caste discrimination not only for itself but for the world.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm not going to let you down. before i go to russia, i would like to share with you the very sad news that i have just received: the leader of the european people's party, prime minister wilfried martens, has died in the early hours of this morning. i'd like to take this opportunity to offer my condolences to his family. i hope that the president who is voting today will pay tribute to this great man and this great european. i am very pleased with the commissioner's comments on russia. i can only add, and i will end my statement here, that i agree with everything the commissioner has said. i am pleased and i would like to express my satisfaction with the fact that the european commission and the high representative are working so actively to change the strange and unacceptable in the civilized world, in the 21st century, the law of the russian federation. i think we should all, as european politicians, also appeal to the representatives of our governments, the governments of the member states of the european union. given the scandalous nature of this law and the persecution of minorities in russia, today not only the high representative, not only the european commissioners, but also every prime minister of the european union government, every president, every foreign minister should raise this issue in meetings. russia must understand that we cannot accept such a law, that human rights, the rights of minorities, the rights of ngos to operate freely in the russian federation must be guaranteed.
mr. chairman, please! the european union is interested in deepening and developing relations with russia, but we expect respect for democratic principles, the rule of law and respect for human rights. this is why we are concerned about russia's failure to comply with its international legal obligations to respect fundamental human rights and the rule of law as enshrined in the european convention on human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights. particularly worrying are the increase in violent attacks with xenophobic and homophobic motives, the threat of dismantling of ngos monitoring serious human rights violations, the law restricting peaceful protests, the homophobic law restricting lgbt rights, the so-called 'blasphemy law', and the lack of effective investigations into the killings of journalists and human rights activists. the resolution of 13 june 2013 on the rule of law in russia expressed our concerns. however, since the measures taken in its wake have not had the expected effect, what other measures are planned? are we sufficiently communicating to the russian authorities that full respect for human rights will improve russia's image and credibility on the world stage, and in particular in its relations with the european union?
one example of russian authoritarianism is certainly the foreign agents law. the attorney general has classified over 200 ngos on the basis of this report. the adoption of this shameful document resulted in increased control of associations. those that received foreign funding were forced to suspend operations or abandon grants. this is mainly the case for organisations monitoring the political situation and the rule of law in russia. in june, the association gołos, which monitored the elections and documented massive fraud in the last elections, was suspended. i don't need to explain the consequences of this for russia's deeply entrenched democracy. i also want to express my concern about the increased activity of the russian military. this year, moscow is conducting combat training on a scale not seen since soviet times. union diplomacy cannot remain idle in the face of these circumstances.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. of all the bodies of the european parliament, the committee on petitions is the one that works closest to citizens, is open to their concerns and requests. the report covers the full range of issues that meps tackled in 2012, from genetically modified food to waste disposal. however, i would like to draw attention to the issue which the committee on petitions refused to take up. the crash of the polish presidential plane near smolensk in 2010 is the case. a petition to that effect, which also reached the white house, has been signed by more than 25,000 people. a similar text was also sent to the european parliament's committee on petitions. however, there was a lack of political will to take the matter seriously. and yet, this is a disaster in which the president of a european union member state was killed and in which nato generals, prominent politicians, social activists were killed, and the circumstances of which have still not been explained. on the contrary, in which new evidence is emerging that the official version of pilot error, presented immediately after the disaster, is false. i think it was a mistake for the petitions committee to refuse to deal with this issue. i hope that in the next term of office and we will come back to this matter the committee on petitions will treat it with due consideration.
mr. chairman, please! the statistics show an increasing number of petitions reaching the committee on petitions. this is a sign of the growing awareness of eu citizens. we can be glad that it is. one of the fundamental objectives for which the union was founded was to build a civil society aware of its rights. the committee received 1986 petitions on fundamental rights, the environment, the internal market, economic and social affairs, of which 1406 were considered admissible. the commission has made a number of important achievements in the past year. this is because our work meets the expectations of the public. we initiate debates and meet with citizens. it's been proven to be effective. it should be stressed that 2012 was a breakthrough year. for the first time, citizens were granted the right to a citizens' initiative, which they used. sixteen initiatives were received, including one 'right to water' which was supported by one million citizens, and the commission took an active part in the legislative process as an independent organiser of public hearings. in view of all the above, i ask you to vote in favour of the 2012 report. acceptance will be a sign of appreciation for our work and support for the building of civil society in the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the year 2012 has markedly highlighted the importance and usefulness of the committee on petitions. as many as 1,896 petitions were received by parliament, compared with 1,414 the previous year, indicating a significant increase and spread of this form of citizens' struggle for their rights. however, after analysing the report, i regret to say that we continue to receive many complaints indicating that discrimination against citizens in the union continues to occur on the grounds of disability, membership of a minority, gender or sexual orientation. at a time when citizens are increasingly mobile and benefit from open borders and their rights as union citizens, more effective legislative mechanisms are needed to protect those rights and to improve their enforcement. the opening up of the common labour market offers enormous opportunities, but unfortunately - as the report shows - it also creates many problems and reveals gaps which need to be closed as soon as possible. i congratulate my absent colleague, the rapporteur, on his insightful report and look forward to continued good cooperation in maintaining transparency in our contacts with european citizens.
in writing. − european parliament legislative resolution of 10 october 2013 on the participation of jordan in union programmes (12138/2012 c7-0008/2013 2012/0108 ((nle)) i voted in favour of the draft framework agreement between the european union and the hashemite kingdom of jordan on the general principles for the participation of the hashemite kingdom of jordan in union programmes under the european neighbourhood policy (enp), as i consider the hashemite kingdom of jordan to be an important partner of the european union, in particular as jordan's geographical location makes it a strategic country for stability and security in the middle east and peace, stability and prosperity in the eu's neighbourhood. i am particularly impressed by the humanitarian disaster caused by the war in syria and believe that the european union must help the hashemite kingdom of jordan, which is currently hosting over 500 000 syrian refugees, which is a huge burden for jordan and for the stability of the whole region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr mulder on the establishment of a european border surveillance system (eurosur). the activities of the agency will in future enable the early detection and reduction of illegal migration at the external borders of the european union. eurosur, through its cooperation with the various union agencies, such as the european maritime safety agency and the european asylum support office, will contribute to improving security, which will result in a reduction in organised crime across europe. in the light of the mass and often tragically desperate attempts by migrants to cross the union's external maritime borders, we must also draw attention to the need for close cooperation and monitoring between eu member states and neighbouring third countries. i fully support the establishment of a european border surveillance system which, through effective monitoring, will contribute to the effective control and tracing of migration flows, both at the land and sea borders of the european union.
in writing. − free movement between countries is one of the european union's fundamental principles. the abolition of border controls serves to facilitate easy and fast movement, while reflecting the idea of european unity. however, the opening of borders also brings with it many dangers, such as illegal migration and international organised crime. the european border surveillance system eurosur was created to facilitate the exchange of information and operational cooperation between national authorities of the member states. effective cooperation and rapid response are made possible by national coordination centres, which are designated and supervised by each member state. eurosur's main task is to provide each country with information on the situation at its external borders. the messages from the national coordination centres are continuously enriched by the use of the latest technologies. the extension of the border control system will certainly help to reduce the extent of illegal immigration into the european union. the activities of the intelligence services, which will be able to respond immediately, should also be intensified. as a consequence, the deaths of migrants caused by improper transport conditions can be prevented. crossborder crime is a very difficult issue, as it goes far beyond the competence and activities of a member state. therefore, the continuous and above all the close surveillance that eurosur ensures will minimise cross-border crime, which in turn will significantly improve internal security throughout the european union.
in writing. − european parliament legislative resolution of 10 october 2013 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european border surveillance system (eurosur) (com (2011) 0873 c7-0506/2011 2011/0427 ((cod)) i abstained on this matter because, although i consider that the ability to move around the european union without having to undergo internal border controls is one of its greatest achievements, the european border surveillance system (eurosur) can be improved in some areas, such as better coordination and cooperation between union bodies and with third countries. but i don't agree with the idea of distributing immigrants evenly among eu countries, because i believe that not all eu countries have the same financial and infrastructural capacity to take in more immigrants, and that this is a decision that has to be made by national parliaments.
in writing. - once again, a major ep resolution is distorted in its wording by weak and loose amendments and paragraphs that should never have been in it. i don't agree with the idea of an equal distribution of immigrants among eu countries. this is a stupid idea. immigration is a problem for the eu and for europe, but attempting to regulate it from the top down by imposing solutions on member states is a big mistake. these decisions must be taken by national parliaments.
in writing. − european parliament legislative resolution of 10 october 2013 on the proposal for a directive on portable batteries and accumulators containing cadmium for use in cordless electronic devices (com ((2012) 0136 c7-0087/2012 2012/0066 ((cod)) i voted in favour of the resolution for the health of our citizens, as it is proven that cadmium has negative effects on the environment and human health, especially since when it accumulates in the environment or in the human body, it becomes toxic and can often cause irreversible damage.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution. i believe that security and the fight against terrorism are key issues for europe. to counter these threats effectively, often unconventional and controversial measures must be taken. all these matters should be examined by national parliaments alone.
in writing. − i have voted in favor of the resolution on strengthening cross-border law-enforcement cooperation in the eu: the implementation of the ‘prüm decision’ and the european information exchange model (eixm) (2013/2586(rsp)). while it is well known that these programs already exist, it is less well known that there is definitely room for improvement, which is the basis of this document. as we delve deeper into globalization and are able as eu citizens to travel freely around the eu, these freedoms are being taken advantage of by the criminal elements in our society. therefore, it is vital that member states are able to respond accordingly and rely on one another when the situation to do so presents itself. such cooperation can lead to the apprehension of criminals and in many cases even prevent potential crimes from occurring. we must continue to work toward providing a safe environment in which our citizens can live and prosper and this document fulfills that pursuit to the fullest.
in writing. − european parliament resolution of 10 october 2013 on enhancing cross-border law enforcement cooperation in the eu (eixm) (2013/2586 ((rsp)) i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that the current landscape of different instruments, channels and tools is complex and fragmented, resulting in ineffective instruments and inadequate democratic oversight at eu level, and in some cases also leading to disruption of functioning and access. i agree that a map of eu and national legislation is needed, including (bilateral) international agreements governing the cross-border exchange of law enforcement information, and that an assessment of the true effectiveness of these instruments is needed. our aim must be to make better use of the instruments, channels and tools that exist today.
in writing. − organized crime is now international in nature and cannot be effectively tackled without strengthening crossborder coordination and cooperation. i've mentioned this many times in crim meetings. that's why i voted for this resolution. the current landscape of different instruments, channels and tools is complex and fragmented, resulting in ineffective instruments and inadequate democratic oversight at eu level, as mentioned in the document put to the vote. i also agree that a map of eu and national legislation is needed, including (bilateral) international agreements governing the cross-border exchange of law enforcement information, and that the real effectiveness of these instruments needs to be assessed. our aim must be to make better use of the instruments, channels and tools that exist today.
in writing. − since 2007, the european parliament has been intervening and calling for action to eliminate caste discrimination, which is now recognised as one of the most serious human rights violations in the world, particularly in india, nepal, pakistan, bangladesh and sri lanka. members of the caste continue to suffer from severe forms of social exclusion, poverty, segregation, physical and verbal abuse. the forms of caste discrimination are becoming more and more drastic. their members are often victims of violence, rape, individual and mass murder, and are denied the right to education, access to temples, freedom of housing, access to wells. i therefore support all eu development policy projects and initiatives that combat caste discrimination, as well as joint actions with governments of countries that are working to eliminate caste discrimination. it is necessary to ensure the safety of members of groups who are subject to caste discrimination in the public sphere, to ensure the integration of these groups into society, to create opportunities for the most gifted and to guarantee social justice and redress for disadvantaged groups. today, however, i abstained with the ecr group on the resolution on caste discrimination, because i do not think that this should be one of the main lines of strictly speaking eu legislation, which already takes into account the fight against all broadly defined forms of discrimination.
in writing. − european parliament resolution of 10 october 2013 on caste discrimination (2013/2676 ((rsp)) i abstained on this resolution, although i believe that caste discrimination and segregation prevent respect for fundamental human rights and that all forms of racism and discrimination should be combated with commitment and determination. i am particularly concerned about the violence against dalits and other women in caste societies. i also believe that an enabling environment should be fostered for civil society activists and human rights defenders who work with people affected by caste discrimination. however, i do not agree with the inclusion of a caste clause in all trade and association agreements, because it hinders trade, investment and other economic activities and would also be disadvantageous for european companies to operate in these markets compared to non-eu competitors.
in writing. - unfortunately, the caste problem is increasingly affecting europe through the large number of immigrants crossing our borders. in this case, we must strictly enforce the rules of our cultural traditions and our european christian roots. i abstained on this resolution, although i believe that discrimination and caste segregation prevent the respect of fundamental human rights. i am particularly concerned about the violence against dalits and other women in caste societies. i also believe that an environment that is conducive to civil society activists and human rights defenders working with people affected by this problem should be promoted. however, i do not agree with the idea that all trade and association agreements should include a clause on caste discrimination. it's a dead recipe.
mr. chairman, please! the right to petition parliament reflects the democratic foundations on which the community is built. through meps, citizens can reach out to the commission and the other european institutions. petitions are also an excellent tool for monitoring public sentiment, which is essential in the legislative process. particularly noteworthy is the petition signed by over 2.5 million people against acta. the unambiguous position of the citizens has effectively blocked this unfortunate agreement. however, there are strong concerns about investment in the shale gas sector. the applicants stress the shortcomings of the legal acts in relation to the environmental risks they consider to be caused by the fracturing technology. perhaps this is the result of an imperfect information policy in this area. it is therefore worth considering a wider promotion of similar issues.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. this is another debate here in the european parliament about the persecution of christians in the world. this time we're talking about what's happened in syria, what's happening in pakistan and iran. a tragic symbol is what happened in syria, in maaluli, near damascus, where three catholics were murdered for refusing to deny jesus christ. and this is something that's very shocking. but even more shocking are the statistics about the situation of christians in the world. do you realize that nearly 200 million people who profess christianity are discriminated against around the world? do you realize that 170,000 of them die every year? do you know that 456 christians die every day because they're not ashamed or willing to deny their faith? ladies and gentlemen, it is time for the european union to finally take this matter seriously. i hope that this will not be another debate in which we will talk about all these cases of human rights violations, discrimination, killing, murdering of christians, and then we will all leave and there will be no further action by the european union's foreign service. if the european union does not really react to this, it will lose all credibility.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. of course we should - and rightly so today - condemn all attacks on christians in the world. today, in the resolution, we name three countries: syria, pakistan and iran. but we could go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and and on and on and and and on and unfortunately, that's not the case. christians are actually the most persecuted religious group in the world today, as my colleague from the ecr group said. i therefore join the call to the high representative for the cfsp and to all member states, to their prime ministers, to redouble and triple their efforts to resolve this situation. these are the countries that we are helping with development aid, that we are working with as much as possible, so we should do everything we can to prevent further attacks and persecution.
on behalf of the s&d group. in recent months, we have seen increased attacks on christian minorities in many muslim countries. on september 22, a bomb attack at the all saints church in peshawar, pakistan, killed more than 80 people and seriously injured 120. furthermore, the christian minority there lives in constant fear of being accused of blasphemy, which carries a death sentence or life imprisonment. in syria, al-qaeda-linked rebels have attacked the christian town of maalula. at least four people have been killed in the clashes, and many have been abducted. dozens of people remain trapped in tekla monastery (once a joint home for muslim and christian orphans), where conditions are deteriorating day by day due to lack of water and food. about 5,000 residents were forced to seek shelter in nearby villages. the widespread attacks on christian minorities in other countries in the middle east also highlight the need for an immediate response by the international community to ensure the protection of the lives and rights of all citizens, regardless of their faith.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. repeated cases of christian murder confirm the spreading wave of violence against the catholic church worldwide. the violence is so intense that everyone is being killed, including women and innocent children. it's a return to the middle ages and the rules of the darkest history of mankind. every day brings new victims and a desperate cry for help in such a hopeless situation. it is a cry directed first and foremost to europe, which is inseparably linked with christendom, and to all the institutions acting in its name. in the face of the crimes committed against innocent people, we are horrified to see the weakness of the european union, whose action is limited to successive statements condemning unworthy acts. that's not the kind of help those who are still alive are asking. i therefore call on the commission and the council to take all possible diplomatic and economic measures to ensure that the victims are effectively protected and that the wave of violence and persecution against christians is stopped. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. it is a proven fact that the most harmed and currently attacked on the basis of religion are christians. we europeans, whose history is primarily christian, must beware of these people. this does not mean that we should forget others, but note that these people, christians, are the ones who are most forgotten today.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr. ambassador, i know you as a brave defender of the opposition in kazakhstan. i appreciate your work, but i would like to ask you if it is not a little embarrassing for you that your political group is admonishing some people, for example, the oppositionists from kazakhstan, and does not want to admonish today about the fate of persecuted christians. i don't think that's the best way to divide the victims into the good and the bad. shouldn't you be persuading your colleagues to vote for this resolution?
mr. chairman, please! we in europe, which is becoming more and more secular, are quite used to the fact that the views of christians, their religion, are ridiculed, are caricatured. we have also seen such an unpleasant, unfriendly attitude towards this religion in this house. but the cases we're talking about today are murders, religious killings. the number of christians being murdered every day - half a thousand - should be a shock to all of us. christianity is the most persecuted, repressed religion in the world. let's remember these people not just on the occasion of events in syria, pakistan or iran, but every day.
mr. chairman, please! the debate in the european parliament is very late, as is the resolution that is to be adopted. for many months now, we have seen the dramatic deterioration of the situation of christians, who are not only persecuted on a mass scale, but above all murdered. europe is silent for good reason, the european parliament is silent. it happens every day, even today. unfortunately, this is a serious accusation and a charge against the european parliament and other european institutions and individual countries. in may 2013, christian solidarity international announced that there is a silent genocide of christians in the middle east, and that is no exaggeration. yes, it is genocide! on a mass scale, people are being exterminated on purpose just because they are christians. that's why we need to do more than just talk. it's too late for a resolution. now it's about action. the question is, what will they be? a few months ago, general salim idriss, the commander of the free syrian army, was in brussels at the invitation of the alde group. unfortunately, when more than 80,000 christians were expelled from homs, where his army was looting churches, we were celebrating his presence. we condemned assad at the same time. assad must be condemned for what is wrong, but let's look at the situation objectively: there is evil that is happening, which has its source among the rebels supported by the united states, qatar, saudi arabia and the free world, also by the european union. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
answer the question asked by raising the blue card. i have a different impression than you, mr. deputy. as mr migalski rightly pointed out a moment ago, there are often words in this chamber that mock and ridicule christianity as such. there is a process of secularization of europe, which is associated with the denial, the cutting off from the judeo-christian roots, as evidenced by the treaty of lisbon, which did not refer to what is, after all, the historical truth about our genesis and the development of europe and the place where we are today. it is also true that europe is supporting and the big european countries, especially germany (sorry, not germany, but france, uk) the rebel circles in syria that are linked to al qaeda. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. chairman, please! the ongoing debate and lack of concrete decisions and actions in response to events in syria is making the brutal crisis in that country increasingly sectoral. violent clashes in ma'aloula, the site of the annual day of the cross festival that draws followers of all religions from all over syria, and the attack on the monastery of st. tekli - a home for nuns and orphans of both christianity and islam - have left more and more christians living in uncertainty, fearing for their lives and those of their loved ones. the christian and muslim communities in syria have lived together in peace for hundreds of years, setting an example to the world of wisdom, tolerance and maturity. now it is up to europe and indeed the whole world to prove that they too are mature, responsible and strong enough to provide protection to all minorities present in syria: shiites, alawites, kurds, druze and christians.
- mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the european parliament must speak up in defence of those who are trying to fight for freedom of expression in sudan in this african country where human rights defenders, journalists and civil rights activists are having a particularly hard time. the recent arrests of at least 800 opposition members, journalists, human rights defenders, all of them, are proof of this. especially since there are fatalities. at least 50 people were killed. i believe that it is necessary to show very strongly and decisively that the european parliament, despite the divisions that exist here, is speaking out on this matter and will stand guard over human rights. just as we defend (the european parliament much more than the european commission) the rights of christians, so we should defend the people who are persecuted in sudan.
on behalf of the ecr group. sudanese have repeatedly come out in mass protests against the dictatorship of president al-bashir, who is on an international wanted list. this time, however, security forces showed exceptional brutality, mercilessly shooting at protesters and killing many of them. i condemn these events. half of the people in sudan live below the poverty line. they don't run schools. human rights are being violated everywhere. reforms are necessary to put the country back on the right track. i urge the authorities to cooperate with specialized humanitarian organizations and to act in accordance with international standards. i call on the sudanese authorities to stop censoring the media, to ensure freedom of expression for journalists and to guarantee citizens access to independent sources of information. above all, however, the political and economic situation in the country requires an immediate dialogue with the public.
mr. chairman, please! the situation in sudan is extremely difficult. i call on the sudanese government to cease violence in the repression of the unrest, to immediately investigate the killings of protesters in september 2013, and to release or prosecute those detained and to ensure a fair trial. the biggest humanitarian challenge today is the difficulty of accessing water, food, shelter, education and health care. sudan should ratify the revised cotonou agreement in order to receive financial support from the 10th european development fund. the sudanese authorities must respect the rights of women and lgbt people, freedom of assembly, religion, speech, press and internet. sudan should abolish the death penalty. i call on the hr to renew the mandate of the union special representative for sudan and south sudan, especially as the united states, russia and china have special envoys. and the question is: what action does the high representative intend to take in view of the sudanese government's failure to cooperate with the international criminal court?
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament cannot remain indifferent to the fact that at least 800 people - activists, journalists, oppositionists - were arrested in the recent protests that erupted after the president's speech. protests were brutally suppressed with firearms. over 100 people lost their lives. in addition, freedom of speech has been severely violated, and access to the internet has been restricted by filtering and censoring information. the sudanese government should stop the repression of peaceful demonstrators. i call for respect for the rights and fundamental human rights! i call for full, uncensored access to the open internet, to free up mobile phones, information and communication technologies - that's what international law requires. i would also draw the attention of the hr to the need to extend the mandate of the special representative for sudan and south sudan.
in writing. in recent days, we have been receiving disturbing news from sudan which until recently was one of the few arab countries where we did not see major outbreaks of social discontent. on september 23, the government cut fuel subsidies, citing rising inflation and currency instability. as a result, prices rose by 75%, causing a wave of protests in which dozens of people were killed and hundreds were injured. the brutal repression of protests is not the only government action against citizens. persecution of social activists, journalists, activists and members of opposition parties, as well as attacks on media freedom, seem to be commonplace. journalists are forbidden to publish information about the current situation. the authorities are shutting down the news channels, revoking their licenses. other newspapers, including sudan's largest newspaper, al-indiana, are also suspended. the treatment of detainees is also questionable families are not informed of their whereabouts and health, let alone of their contact. as representatives of democratic countries where human life and dignity are of paramount importance, we cannot remain indifferent to the obvious violation of fundamental rights and civil liberties. i believe that in this situation we have a duty to speak out against the actions of the administration of the current president, omar al-bashir, and that is why i support the text of today's resolution.
mr. chairman, please! recently, there have been almost daily incidents of violence in iraq. not a day goes by without reports of shootings, bombings, car traps, suicide attacks and kidnappings. the number of injured and dead is already in the tens of thousands, most of them accidental. all suffer, adults and children alike. journalists and observers are also at risk. what we are dealing with in iraq is terrorism at its worst, which has paralysed the daily lives of the civilian population for a long time. it is therefore appropriate to call on the iraqi authorities and all parties to the conflict to stop the violence and to start peace talks. the international community cannot remain silent and limit itself to dry appeals.
mr. chairman, please! i was not allowed to speak in the question room about the persecution of christians, the largest group of innocent people being murdered in the world today. no matter what country we're talking about, what kind of persecution, i always have the same sense of helplessness in the face of the scale of terror that is inflicted on innocent victims. iraq itself saw a number of attacks in september: 60 people were killed in baghdad neighborhoods on september 3, 40 people were killed in bombings across iraq on september 15, 60 people were murdered during a funeral in the as-saura district on september 21, and 54 people were killed in car bombs on september 30. and all we can do is to pass a resolution in which we strongly condemn, express our deep concern, call on the government, encourage dialogue. there's nothing more we can do. sometimes i think the most appropriate prayer would be: "lord, receive and shine upon the souls of all the innocent victims around the world who have been remembered here today".
mr president, what is happening in iraq today is unacceptable. we see a clear, growing influence of the iranian regime in iraq which, unfortunately, has turned that country into a dictatorship that may be no better than before. the brutal attack on camp ashraf last month is a clear example of this. 52 defenceless, unarmed refugees with protected person status were executed one by one by the iraqi troops who were supposed to protect them. we in this parliament have been warning about this for many years and, unfortunately, no one took our calls seriously. today’s resolution strongly condemns iraq’s role in this massacre and calls for the immediate release of the seven hostages who were abducted by iraqi forces during the attack. we know that they are being held in baghdad. if they are not released, we should definitely consider punishment and could start by cutting european aid to iraq.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'd like to protest against the attacks on a polish government minister. he's the host of this summit. he is an honest, noble man who differs from his critics in that he is a realist. this is a world summit, not a european summit. what matters is what plans and assumptions the delegations of china, india and the united states will bring to warsaw and what they will bring back. politics that is detached from the global situation is naive politics. there is no contradiction between what poland or other countries are doing and what the european union is doing, but there is a difference in the assessment of the situation. already today, many manufacturing plants are being moved outside the european union precisely because of very restrictive policies. ambitious goals, yes, but realistic goals, goals that will be achievable. but under different assumptions, this climate summit will end up being another failure. and the stakes are high. so i agree with you, commissioner, that without active, maybe even aggressive climate diplomacy, without un-level agreements and great policy, our politics will be very fragmented. we're emitting 11% of our co2 emissions, but it's only 11% and the planet is at stake. we cannot lose jobs and competitiveness when the powerful polluters are not really involved. so my appeal is to build up our strength and set realistic targets, and in paris we will indeed achieve a small success, but a success nonetheless, because time is running out.
mr. chairman, please! the resolution is a very important document, it has to show what we want to get across to all the partners, these biggest emitters, these partners who are by far the most difficult for us. it's the united states, china, all of south america, india. what do we want to offer them? our proposal right now is that we put on the table a 30% reduction by 2020 and a 50% reduction by 2030. i wanted to know if anyone had talked to them, if we had any information that these countries would accept our proposals. we want to discuss this and we should prepare material that is accepted and accepted by all, not selectively by a part of the continent. i think that at the moment, to get us to talk about introducing special taxes when there is a crisis, is to push the whole of european industry out of europe. are we thinking about it, or do we want it? my colleagues say there will be many jobs because there will be a new distribution and the writing of a binding agreement for 30% will be the panacea for everything. ladies and gentlemen, let's not believe that, because if we did, it would have already been implemented, we would already have had effects, and we have no effects. for me, the global agreement is the most important thing. if we have less and more, it will be for the good of all.
mr. chairman, please! the idea of a global agreement of all parties should be consistent with the principle of equity and shared but differentiated carbon responsibility. these commitments should be ambitious, setting binding targets, but not detached from the reality or the possibilities of the signatories. the agreement will only have a measurable and tangible environmental impact if it is shared and enforceable, not just declaratory. despite the decline in emissions in europe and the united states, the international energy agency reported in its 2012 report that global co2 emissions were increasing. i therefore believe that the latest position and conclusions adopted at the council meeting are moving in the right direction, are an example of a common sense compromise and of the community's response to the challenge of climate policy. tightening reduction targets without reaching a global agreement is unjustified and unfounded. the european union, as one of the leaders, should focus on energy efficiency, energy security, competitiveness and solutions to reverse the trend in energy prices and costs, which are also becoming a global problem. it is equally important to establish a dialogue with industry and global actors. this is crucial to reaching a satisfactory agreement. that is why i object to the suspicions about the polish presidency - which i heard in the speeches of mrs lepage and mr eickhout - about the kind of political corruption, the connection with the corporations. this is crucial to finding a solution. the companies are also responsible for climate policy.
in writing. poland is preparing to host the climate conference for the second time. under the kyoto protocol, agreed in 1997 and in force since 2005, countries that have acceded to it will work towards reducing greenhouse gas emissions. its validity has been extended until 2020. a new global agreement must affect all countries to reduce carbon emissions globally. the objectives should be binding on all countries and ambitious, but they must not be detached from reality. this is particularly important in times of such severe impact of the financial crisis. the european union, as a global player, must realise its potential and promote energy security, competitiveness and energy efficiency.
in writing. poland is preparing to host the climate conference for the second time. the kyoto protocol, negotiated in 1997 and in force since 2005, commits the countries that have signed it to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. it was supposed to expire last year, but at last year's climate summit in qatar, it was decided to extend it until 2020. this new global agreement, if it is to be concluded at all, must have real added value. the global agreement that is being negotiated must involve all countries and mobilize all countries to work together to reduce co2 emissions. the problem is that the european union has a much more restrictive approach to climate policy than the world's major economies. it is important to remember that the eu's extremely costly climate policy is in line with global trends. for example, the world produces over 6 billion tonnes of coal today, of which the eu accounts for only a few per cent. the question today is really the same: will we succeed in combining european policy with world policy at the warsaw summit?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to refer to what mr schulz said. indeed, and we must realise that it is in the interest of the eastern partnership countries and the european union to cooperate closely. the one looking at it the wrong way is russia. the closer we cooperate with these countries, the more they have a chance for independence and, their own subjectivity in relation to russia. i would also add that strong cooperation, especially economic cooperation, between the eastern partnership countries and the european union is also in the interests of russia, a democratic and free russia, which will be able to build a future and relations based on partnership, cooperation and economic cooperation with such independent, resourceful countries. it is therefore worthwhile to pursue this, because it is a classic win-win situation for all parties, especially the european union, but also the eastern partnership countries. let's remember that investing is one of the best opportunities we have and let's spend european money on it, because it will benefit us and the eastern partnership countries.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. of course, you surprised me a little by calling for a speedy vote, but i think i can handle it. ladies and gentlemen, there are many words i would like to say. i've heard it from my colleagues before. politicians, especially the most important ones, are very fond of signing important agreements in the light of jupiter, but it must be admitted that this agreement, which i hope will be signed with ukraine and initialled with georgia and moldova, is for these countries, but also for the european union, an agreement of historical importance. this is not only a political sign that these countries are seeking to integrate with the european union, but also a profound economic transformation. it is the linking of the future of these countries' economies to the european union market. it is also, of course, - and we have to tell these countries about this - the opening of their markets to goods from the member states of the european union. it's also a big change in the structure and the legal system of these countries. i hope that this will happen, i hope that these countries will rise to the challenge and in the future integrate fully into the european union. i hope that vilnius will not be the end, but the beginning of a great historical process.
mr. chairman, please! i listened to the commissioner's speech with great attention. i have to admit, i don't quite agree with you on one point. i don't share your view on the significant backlog of ukraine's relations with the european union. i think we have to acknowledge the efforts and the economic and political reforms that have been made in recent years. our expectations have, in my view, been largely met. when we talk about trade policy, we should also remember the technical instrument that enables trade, namely the development of transport infrastructure. ukraine is for us, the european union, a kind of gateway to russia. it is a transport gateway to the eurasian corridors in general. commissioner, are there any specific plans to develop and finance transport corridors, specifically rail corridors, including the use of the broad gauge line from katowice, as well as road infrastructure? i believe that this would be very helpful to both sides in the decision-making process on the association between the union and ukraine.
mr. chairman, please! today's debate is extremely important because it is an expression of the european parliament's solidarity with countries that are under enormous pressure from the kremlin, from the russian federation. it is very important that the european parliament shows that on the one hand it strongly supports the association process - we are talking here mainly about ukraine, but we also have in mind what happened with armenia - but on the other hand it also opposes in a very concrete way russia's efforts to block the european integration of the eastern partnership countries. these russian actions: the trade blockade against ukraine, as well as the threats and blockade of some goods against lithuania this is a step aimed not only at these countries, but above all at the european union. we must show solidarity, and we must also show our partners in the kremlin that we have the means to do so. i hope that the commission will not hesitate to do so, as it has always been very supportive of the signing and negotiation of association and free trade agreements.
in writing. – the issue of close cooperation with our neighbouring countries has come a long way since the development of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) and the eastern partnership. we are now at the point where we are seeing the partnership strengthen in such vital areas as democratic reforms and the rule of law. we have seen reassuring progress in the field of visa-free travel. however, there is still one major obstacle to a successful partnership: trade. the eastern partnership markets, especially ukraine, are the closest markets to our own. but they do not seem to be a priority for our member states and the commission. in light of the continued pressure by russia on the eastern european countries to join their common market project, which has only grown stronger ahead of the vilnius summit, the commission must redouble its efforts to bring the partnership countries into our european market. the enp and the eastern partnership should not be perceived as a consolation prize for the countries aspiring to access the eu, but rather as an opportunity for cooperation on the road to a closer union. if we can build our trade relationship, the rest will follow.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i was preparing an opinion on the trade agreement between the european union and the russian federation in the juri committee, and it concerned drug precursors. on the one hand, we have the organized crime groups and the rapidly growing market for synthetic drugs in europe, which we cannot ignore. on the other hand, we must see entrepreneurs who will inevitably be required to carry out additional checks and to protect personal data. however, in the face of these two values, we must focus on security, on the effective fight against drug crime, and therefore we need deeper international cooperation, with simultaneous strict controls and longer retention periods for commercial data. it is also important to improve the traceability of the history of the companies involved in the trade in precursors. experience has shown that persons convicted of precursor trafficking have reverted to their previous practices after serving previous sentences. we must be consistent here and good international cooperation is necessary.
mr. chairman, please! today, the european court of human rights, literally a mile away, delivered a shameful, unfortunate ruling in a case that the families of the officers killed in katyn have brought against the russian federation for the length of the investigation. it turned out that after seventy years, the families of the victims, but also the victims, are not able to get justice, a true sentence condemning those who are responsible for the death of many thousands of polish officers during the second world war, so that the victims receive the compensation due, both moral and in other dimensions. it's a very bad sign that in the middle of europe, in a building just a kilometer away from us, the poles can't get justice. we must use other forces, other means, including through this house, to ensure that those who have been crying out for justice for decades get it.
mr. chairman, please! unfortunately, slavi binev was right about the problems of bulgarian democracy. apart from censorship, there are other problems, i would like to draw your attention to the way in which concessions are granted in bulgaria. protectionism and the preference of two groups, bulgarian companies linked to oligarchic or governmental structures, or the granting of concessions to other companies from outside the european union, such as australia or canada. such a course of action is contrary to the principles of the free market, competition and the interests of the european union. bulgaria has many natural resources and their exploitation is of great importance. i therefore ask that the award of concessions be examined, in particular in two cases: the gold mining concession in chelopetsk and krumovgrad by the canadian company dundee precious metals and the gold mining concession in the sofia area by elacite med. these activities have devastated 800 hectares of forest, destroyed wildlife and bird habitats, and have seriously endangered human life and health, and this is not the first such alarming sign.
mr. chairman, please! today has cast a shadow over the functioning and case law of the european court of human rights in strasbourg. this is a sad day for this court and for the human rights it is supposed to protect. unfortunately, it turned out that this court did not decide to settle the accusations of the families of the victims of the katyn crime against russia, which for years delayed the investigation that was supposed to explain the crime, the genocide committed on 22 thousand polish officers and soldiers. they were captured by soviet troops in 1939 and, on stalin's personal orders, the political bureau of the communist party, murdered in 1940. it's very sad, especially since there's a panel of judges who have made a separate opinion on this case. the crime, the genocide, committed by soviet russia in katyn should be dealt with by the nuremberg tribunal. and then politics took over the justice and the law. today, too, it is clear that russia's politics and influence are stronger than law, justice and fairness.
mr. chairman, please! when poland joined the european union, we were assured that in matters of axiology, values, among others, such as abortion, we will be able to decide as we see fit, as it relates to our morality and religion. your resolution violates the right of individual states to decide how their moral canon is shaped, how their laws are shaped, how they deal with the abortion problem. you have reversed the relationship, you are talking about human rights, that is, the right to abortion is a human right what about the right of this child who is killed? you say it's not a man, that it's part of a woman's body. that's not true. it's a separate entity that has a right to live. it's the law of man. even if you accept that the fetus is indeed a part of the female body, do you think it's okay to go to a doctor and ask to have a healthy arm and a healthy leg cut off? would you have permission to do that? it's an affront to the dignity of this man and it's an affront to the dignity of... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, please! i would also like to congratulate the rapporteur. it is timely because this year is the european year of citizens and this report fits perfectly into our discussion of the role of citizenship, but also of the role of local and regional authorities. it's very important that through the citizens, through the ngos that the citizens are working in, that we have a better control of the government. it's always difficult when the government has to share its powers, but the most important thing is to convince people that it's better to invest in giving some of their powers to ngos, for example, which do most of the work much cheaper and closer to the people. it is also important that the resources of future european funds, such as the european social fund, the 'europe for citizens' programme, 'youth in action', are invested in supporting ngos, because their work is going to the local market. i therefore congratulate the report and wish it a successful outcome.
in writing. local authorities and civil society can and should be more involved in development cooperation. i am glad that the committee on development has initiated this report. i'm organizing the third greater poland development cooperation forum in poznań next month. i must admit that there are still relatively few local and regional authorities and local ngos that are implementing development projects. at the same time, the potential for such action is high. some of the projects already under way are respected for their innovation and effectiveness. the great strength of local authorities and small ngos' participation in development is their ability to build a bottom-up and authentic partnership. local governments that can overcome the narrow, selfish paradigm of working only for the local community can do a lot of good. but they have to overcome the populist belief that they should focus only on local issues. there are many arguments for a broader view of the role of local authorities. some of them are moral imperatives, but there are also very pragmatic arguments. globalization is reaching the local level. migration, demography, climate, energy and economic problems are increasingly being caused by events that take place far from where we live. sustainable development work in developing countries therefore has an impact on the quality of life in different regions of developed countries. so it's worth encouraging local communities to get more involved in the world.
in writing. according to a commission communication, by 2020 more than one third of jobs in the eu will require a higher education qualification. however, as the current situation of young people on the labour market shows, a university degree alone is no guarantee of employment. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that europe needs a fundamental change in all types and levels of education. education systems should be more flexible and focus on the development of key skills such as entrepreneurship, innovation, mathematics, it and language skills. a partnership approach and close cooperation between the education sector and business and employment services are also needed. i am convinced that adapting education systems to employers' expectations will enable young people to acquire the right skills and increase their chances of finding a stable job. skilled workers should be europe's greatest asset and the opportunity for sustainable economic growth and a competitive position on the global market.
mr. chairman, please! today we are faced with a very important problem, which concerns the revision of the regulations on medical devices and diagnostics. what are these medical devices for? i tried to see what we really wanted to regulate. these are valves, pacemakers, various types of prosthetics, breast implants, eye lenses. diagnosis is about dna tests, hiv tests, and so on. ladies and gentlemen, is there any controversy about this? i don't see any. after all, the patient's health is the primary concern of this amendment. the patient is the most important thing in all of this. if we're talking about at this point that manufacturers need to have special rights because otherwise their products won't sell, i ask why, as human beings, we don't try to understand those who actually often need our help. secondly, very often producers defend themselves against insurance. if we buy a car, we have a warranty. and you also need a warranty on different products. today the company produces, tomorrow it ceases to exist. it's the law of the market. we need to be absolutely certain that all medical products are of the highest quality, are available, are certified and are reliable. this is a message to every manufacturer about product reliability.
mr. chairman, please! a high level of patient care is the foundation of the health security of the european public . the elements of this high quality of care are, in particular, the access of patients to the highest quality medical devices ensuring the highest level of safety, the protection of european minors and adults who are incapable of making decisions and giving consent to various studies, and the carrying out of a positive clinical evaluation of the clinical efficacy of the medical devices used before the ethics committee conducts the study. the report contains a number of elements that are equally important for the health and safety of the patient . i am glad that we have taken up this issue in the european parliament and i hope that the responsible implementation of the solutions recommended in the report will lead to greater safety for patients and medical device manufacturers.
mr. chairman, please! 2014 is going to be a special year. this will be the first year of the new multiannual eu budget, in which beneficiaries will have to learn new rules, they will have to understand anew how they can use eu money. it is also the year - and this should be made clear to those who think there is no saving - in which the eu budget will be de facto smaller than this year. i regret this because i think the european union needs more investment money, more money to strengthen the economy, and more money to work together in the european union. it was all the more saddening for me to see the council's position for 2014, which proposes further cuts, cuts against what i believe is already a modest proposal from the european commission. i am personally opposed to these cuts and the budget committee has opposed them. we are restoring the european commission's position on most budget lines and are additionally strengthening those parts of the eu budget that are particularly important for the innovation economy, growth and the future. these are the budget lines that finance horizon 2020 for science, the lines that support erasmus plus, which promotes education, youth exchanges and more, supporting the european education area, and the cosme programme, which promotes small and medium-sized enterprises and job creation as an important issue in the current situation of the european union. the position that the european parliament will adopt this week is, i think, very disciplined. the european union and its beneficiaries need funds, which are already very modest.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? in view of the natural resources and international security issues, cooperation with the central asian region should be seen as one of the key policy investments. the region also has a significant place in our strategy towards the cis countries. engagement in these countries is equally important in the context of the need to strengthen the community's position in relations with russia. the macro-financial assistance to kyrgyzstan, set at eur 30 million, is intended to support the economic stabilisation of the country, which has been hit by the international financial crisis. in my view, this will allow for a broadening of influence and a deepening of mutual relations with bishkek, especially in conjunction with additional measures to promote the rule of law. such initiatives also give the european union the opportunity to take action to promote democratic institutions.
in writing. − the current political situation in kyrgyzstan is difficult and deteriorating. since the 2010 revolution, protests have been ongoing across the country. but there is no sign of another coup, as the opposition is divided and marginalized and the central government is weakened. in addition to internal issues, kyrgyzstan is also rocked by riots on the border with uzbekistan and tajikistan. this leads to the disintegration of the country and the destruction of the state apparatus, resulting in a dangerous destabilisation of the region. the political division of the country into north and south and the inefficiency of the economy make it impossible for kyrgyzstan to transform itself into a healthy organism. if the european union is to promote stability and peace in the world, we should give assistance to kyrgyzstan. this is particularly important, also because it lies at the crossroads of us and russian interests, which are fighting over a zone of influence there. further disintegration and destruction of kyrgyzstan would have a very negative impact on the situation in the region, especially in the context of the succession of power in uzbekistan and kazakhstan.
in writing. − kyrgyzstan's foreign trade turnover in 2012 reached $7.267 billion, an increase of 11.8% compared to 2011 said kyrgyz economy minister temir sariev. according to the data it provided, imports increased by 26,1%. this was accompanied by a slight decrease in exports by 15,5%. excluding gold, exports increased by 7.7%. sariev said that russia and kazakhstan are kyrgyzstan's largest trading partners among the cis countries. the main imports are oil products, grain and coal. among the countries of the further abroad, china, switzerland, turkey, japan and the united arab emirates are the most important. kyrgyzstan's exports to the cis countries are mainly agricultural products, foodstuffs and textiles, while to the countries of the far east it exports gold, leather goods, scrap metal and inorganic chemicals.
in writing. − in vitro diagnostic medical devices include various tests such as self-testing of blood sugar, testing for hiv and dna testing. the european commission proposal is largely focused on product quality. the withdrawal of these low-quality products from the market is a matter of public health protection. in the past, there have been cases where a low-quality product has been placed on the market and tested negative, while the person was actually infected with hiv. this was a health risk for patients receiving blood transfusions and was associated with the risk of spreading the virus. similar cases have been reported in the case of the life-threatening disease hepatitis c. these situations show the very important need for improvements in the system. the new improvements for in vitro diagnostic medical devices are similar to those introduced for other medical devices and are aimed at improving the work of notified bodies, strengthening market surveillance and the surveillance system. i believe that the proposed network of european reference laboratories will help to eliminate high-risk medical devices. i fully support the introduction of the new conclusions with amendments, as i believe that this will significantly improve patient safety.
in writing. − in vitro diagnostic medical devices are classified according to the potential risk associated with their use: list a, list b, in vitro diagnostic medical devices for use on their own, in vitro diagnostic medical devices for performance evaluation and other in vitro diagnostic medical devices. self-contained in vitro diagnostic medical device is an in vitro diagnostic medical device intended by the manufacturer for use by a lay person in the home. 'in vitro diagnostic medical device for performance evaluation' means an in vitro diagnostic medical device intended for one or more performance evaluation studies carried out in medical analysis laboratories or other appropriate locations outside the manufacturer's premises;
in writing. − i voted in favour of the rapporteur on medical devices because i fully agree that the safety and health of patients is an unquestionable public health priority in the european union. in order to guarantee a high level of health for its citizens, it is necessary to establish transparent and scientifically sound internal market rules in the field of medical devices. in addition, stricter controls are needed to ensure that only safe medical devices enter the european market. however, it should be noted that in the case of innovative high-risk medical devices, the decision to place them on the market cannot be taken by the notified body alone. every medicinal product entering the market should be subject to the same assessment according to the same criteria. at present, there are no common verification methods available in the european union, either for manufacturers or for notified bodies. in view of the above, i am in favour of the establishment of new evaluation mechanisms in this area, which would reduce administrative procedures while ensuring the highest level of safety for patients and healthcare professionals.
in writing. − health safety is a fundamental principle that we must uphold to ensure adequate healthcare and to reduce the incidence of ill health resulting from the use of inadequate medical devices. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i believe that it, together with the report on in vitro medical devices, maintains the related horizontal approach between the two subjects, while at the same time distinguishing their fields of application where appropriate. greater safety and consistency in the use of medical devices and their authorisation is a good way forward on the positive path indicated by the guidance in this report.
in writing. − we voted today on the draft proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on medical devices amending directive 2001/83/ec, regulation (ec) no 178/2002 and regulation (ec) no 1223/2009. this regulation aims to ensure the functioning of the internal market in medical devices, taking as a basis a high level of health protection for patients, users and operators of the devices concerned. at the same time, this regulation sets high standards of quality and safety for medical devices in response to widespread concerns in this area. both objectives are pursued simultaneously. they are inseparable, and none of them is inferior to the other. the desire to ensure easy access for patients to new medical devices should never take precedence over the need to ensure patient safety. in line with the first hippocratic principle, which states that healthcare professionals have a duty to do no harm, the amendments we voted today will make it easier for clinical data to be publicly available to both professionals and citizens so that they know which product they should use. we're talking about products that are supposed to alleviate patients' suffering and illness. we should help eu citizens, as well as doctors, to have access to the best products, which is why i voted in favour of the regulation.
in writing. −safe and innovative medical devices are of great importance to patients, doctors and the medical technology industry. these include a wide range of different products, from patches, to pregnancy tests, contact lenses and x-ray machines, to pacemakers and hiv tests. the new regulations on medical devices proposed by the european commission are important because they aim to improve market surveillance, empower notified bodies and ensure transparency of product traceability. i believe that these regulations will help to avoid situations like this, where the implantation of defective breast implants that contained cheap, industrial silicone and that have been available on the market for over a decade has been revealed, and to avoid disasters related to hip implants, intracranial stents, etc. in order to ensure better assessment of the efficacy and safety of high-risk medical devices before they are placed on the market, improvements by the european parliament are necessary. in view of the improvement of patient safety and the protection of public health, i fully support the proposal for new rules, together with the amendments to the roth-behrendt report.
in writing. − based on the definition in directive 93/43/eec, a medical device is a 'tool, instrument, apparatus, appliance, material or other article, used alone or in combination, including software necessary for the proper use of the device, intended by the manufacturer to be used in humans for the purpose of: • diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, treatment or alleviation of disease; • diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, alleviation or compensation of injury or disability; • examination, replacement or modification of anatomical structures or the performance of a physiological process; • regulation of conception and gestation; and, at the same time, which does not achieve its intended action on the human body by pharmacological or immunological means, or whose action cannot be aided by metabolic means.
in writing. - thank you, rapporteur, for your report on medical devices. as you know, these products are essential to health care. the innovation and diversity of the industry is improving both the efficiency and quality of healthcare. it is also an important industry of strategic importance to the economies of the member states. the key is to ensure the safety of patients first and foremost. to that end, publicly available information and warnings on medical devices that may present a health risk are necessary. it is also important to act immediately if a medical device is found to be harmful.
in writing. the commission is proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: today's vote will mean that european ships will have to be dismantled in recycling facilities that comply with european standards, while safeguarding the health and safety of workers, combined with the need to protect the environment, a need highlighted in mr schlyter's report. recycling companies will have to limit materials deemed hazardous and handle them only on impermeable soils with a safe and effective drainage system.
in writing. - the ship is a very complex structure in addition to steel, other metals and plastics it contains waste oils, lubricants, etc. we recycle used ships, which can contain a wide variety of solid and liquid waste that is harmful to the environment and human health. the definition of standards and norms is essential. we need to define guidelines for recycling technologies and disposal methods and for the supervision of this process by the competent authorities. not all components and materials have a market or use value. i voted to move.
in writing. − over a thousand large commercial vessels, such as tankers and container ships, are recycled for scrap every year. many european ships are also dismantled in low-standard facilities on the beaches of south asia. these facilities often lack the environmental and safety measures necessary to handle hazardous materials contained in decommissioned ships. these materials include asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls (pcbs), tributyllocin and oil residue. this situation results in high accident rates, risks to workers' health and significant environmental pollution. the new rules, which will take the form of a regulation, provide for a system of inspections, certification and authorisation for large merchant seagoing vessels flying the flag of an eu member state, covering their entire life cycle, from construction to operation and recycling.
in writing. - thank you to the rapporteur for the report on ship recycling. the report focuses on the negative impact of ship recycling on human life and the environment. the key to the proposed convention is to take care of the entire process of both building and stocking ships to ensure social and environmental safety. the regulation of the law and the clear definition of requirements first within each member state, then within the european union, in order to reach an agreement on the international stage, is undoubtedly an important issue. this will allow for better enforcement, control and enforcement by individual countries. in the interest of the public, particular attention should be paid to the proper management of hazardous materials on board ships.
in writing. − the european parliament adopted a legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european statistics in the field of demography. i voted in favour of this resolution, which aims to introduce clearer statistics on demography. member states shall undertake to provide eurostat with information on their population on an annual basis. the adopted document aims to standardise and refine the data that member states transmit to the european union, which can then use this data to produce reliable demographic statistics on the population living in its territory.
in writing. − it is interesting to look at the population issues in the classic european philosophy of plato: first we must determine what the number of inhabitants should be, then agree on how many and how large parts to divide them into, and then divide the land and the settlements as evenly as possible between them. the number of citizens will be determined in an appropriate way, taking into account the area of the country and the neighboring country. the area of the land should be such that the land can satisfy the modest needs of the inhabitants - not much more - and the inhabitants must again be enough to be able to defend themselves against the attack of the neighboring tribes and their neighbors, if they were attacked, to be able to come to their aid effectively. according to this concept, there are strong lobbies in europe to achieve 'optimal world population'. one of the most active is the optimum population trust (opt) in the united kingdom. using the population ratio (ha/person), this group considers the optimal number of people to be between 2.7 billion and 5.1 billion. and on current trends, by 2050, there will be over nine billion people on the planet. in order to reduce the projected population by 60%, the opt promotes having no more than two children. but with the current population of the earth at over 6.8 billion people, such a plan can only be achieved by a radical reduction.
in writing. − according to the world health organization, sexual and reproductive health is a positive, rational approach to sexual relations, the ability to decide whether to have children, and the right to access information and methods of birth control and health care. these are freedoms linked to existing civil, social and political rights, often determined by the religion and culture of the region. they should be available to every man and woman in every country of the european union. to ensure citizens' health in this respect, eu legislation should support actions to guarantee europeans proper sex education, information campaigns and access to counselling services and adequate quality healthcare. the report's demands touch on very important issues, such as maternal mortality and sexual violence, which must be addressed without debate. however, some of the articles that speak about, for example, the 'interaction between teachers and students' in the case of sex education, or the free expression of one's gender, have been formulated in my opinion simply wrongly and in this form i do not agree with them. decisions on very sensitive issues such as abortion should be taken by the member states. that is why i have decided to vote against the report in the final analysis.
in writing. the sexual and reproductive health and rights report is an initiative report and a catch-all. it contains proposals not only on women's health and access to reproductive care but also in a scholarly mix: "taboo-free and interactive" sex education for young children in school, assisted reproduction for lesbians and unmarried women... given the confusion of the political ideas defended in this own-initiative report, which very often fall under the subsidiarity of the member states, i voted for its referral back to committee and i am sticking to the political line laid down in france for more than 35 years by the veil act, especially since simone veil (epp) was the first female president of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the edite estreli report on reproductive and sexual health and rights. in view of the difficult situation of the poles, which is the result of the application of restrictive anti-abortion laws, i consider the most important aspects raised in the estreli report to be: 1. recognition of the right of women to decide freely and responsibly whether to have children, and if so, how many, when and at what intervals. such a right is essential for their personal, social and economic development. the consequence of this position is that access to legal, safe abortion is a women's right and lack of access is a human rights violation. 2. emphasize that member states should regulate and monitor the use of the conscientious objection clause by doctors in order to guarantee respect for the individual's right to reproductive health care and to ensure access to legal services provided at an adequate level and to an affordable system of medical referrals. 3.call on all member states to provide compulsory sex education tailored to the age and perception of children. the higher rates of childbirth, abortion and sexually transmitted diseases among adolescents are often explained by a lack of access to sex education of the right level and scope. statistics confirm that the highest rates of teenage pregnancy and abortion occur in the eastern european member states.
in writing. - the resolution is a response to the mass support of eu citizens for the 'one of us' initiative, which has already been signed by almost 1.5 million eu citizens. the initiative aims to stop eu funding for abortion, while the ep's draft resolution calls for continued funding for organisations providing abortion services. such action undermines confidence in the european parliament, as it clearly goes beyond the competences that member states have granted to the eu. this is an area where each member state is entitled to pursue its own policy. we oppose the disregard for the division of powers between the european union and the member states, as demonstrated by the abovementioned resolution, and call for its rejection. we also recall that before poland joined the eu, the sejm of the republic of poland adopted a resolution on the sovereignty of our state in ethical and family matters.
madam president! the sahel is the poorest region in the world. the people of this city are facing a humanitarian catastrophe. reports indicate that it has the highest infant mortality rate. regular ethnic conflicts are not conducive to the pursuit of sustainable development. the situation is made worse by such factors as widespread corruption and organized crime. so bringing peace, democracy, good governance should be the absolute priority for the sahel. although the conflict in mali has raised international attention to the region's problems, it is still home to some of the worst human rights abuses by islamic militants. particularly disturbing are the repeated incidents of child abuse. i hope that the european union will be committed to preventing the risk of further destabilisation of these countries. their full cooperation with neighbouring countries is also needed to combat transnational crime.
in writing. − i have lent my support to the report on the situation of human rights in the sahel region (2013/2020(ini)). the current situation in the sahel region is at a dire stage and deserves international attention and assistance. as one of the poorest regions in the world the ideas of democracy and human rights are often overshadowed by hunger and armed conflict. thus, it is very important for the international community to stand together to eradicate these issues and offer assistance in developing democratic governance and providing a platform for the recognition of fundamental human rights. in this day and age it is unfathomable that there are countries in such a state. we must do more for the greater good of mankind, as it reflects on everyone, especially those of us who are in a position to act. this report offers shocking data regarding the current situation and it is not pleasant by any stretch of the imagination. therefore i call on this house to continue its efforts and encourage those responsible to extend their efforts further.
in writing. as the libyan uprising escalated into civil war and the regime of muammar gaddafi began to regain control, france, italy and the united kingdom decided to take military action to save libyan democracy. as a result, they funded the world (and especially libya itself) in a conflict that lasted for months, and in which nato was dragged into. mr gaddafi lost his life and his power, but the world was not enriched by another fully democratic and law-abiding state. on the contrary, libya is now a black hole in regional security, with a negative impact on the entire maghreb and sahel region. the second anniversary of the arab spring is a good time to summarize the strategic implications of this process. the most important of these are geopolitical, affecting the long-term transformation of international processes in the middle east and often beyond. in this dimension, the arab spring has a distinctly negative impact on western interests.
in writing. - i thank the rapporteur for the report on the human rights situation in the sahel. the very important issue of the continuing violation of human rights, particularly in mali, was raised. according to reports by the international human rights organization, there are mass executions by islamic militias in the region. political, social and economic conditions are continuously deteriorating and therefore action is needed to improve the situation in these areas. the key issue is also the vulnerability of borders in the sahel region, which results in the penetration of weapons, which only exacerbates the fighting and is a serious obstacle to building peaceful relations. the eu should do more to support and focus on eliminating threats to life and fundamental human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the corina creţu report on local authorities and civil society: europe's commitment to sustainable development. it should be stressed that the creation of a democratic europe is not only at governmental level, but above all at local level. it is civil society organisations, through their contact with citizens, that form the important link between local society and national governments. in addition, these organisations are a key tool in the fight against corruption and tax fraud. local authorities, which ensure the proper development of the regional economy, also have a very important role to play in ensuring a coherent policy for sustainable development. civil society organisations and local governments as implementing partners have a significant impact on the development and implementation of policy strategies. i believe that active cooperation between these organisations, regional institutions, private partners and individual citizens will contribute to building sustainable development at social, economic and cultural levels.
in writing. − a country's rapid and comprehensive development is possible with a well-functioning state apparatus and a developed civil society. it is when the people of a region take an interest in what is happening around them that the chances of prosperity and prosperity increase. when power is decentralised and competencies are distributed at lower levels, decisions are made more quickly and more effectively. their effects and consequences are immediately apparent. so self-government is a responsibility for the region, the local community, the small homeland. civil society organisations and local authorities play a huge role in shaping attitudes and building a democratic system. the union should therefore support civil society in partner countries through assistance to these structures. we need to develop educational programmes that make the youngest of us aware that every human being can make a difference by being active. support should also be provided to marginalised groups so that they can also actively participate in the formation of civil society. it is in local action, in local traditions and solidarity, that the greatest strength lies.
in writing. − the diversity of each country is a fundamental value of the european union as a whole. it is the balanced development of each individual country that guarantees successful cooperation that produces tangible results. active citizenship is the implementation of the principles of democracy on which the european union operates. the proper functioning of local authorities is essential for the smooth functioning of the whole structure. so it is the local authorities and civil society organisations that have the greatest responsibility. finally, local authorities have an important role to play in supporting education for development and raising awareness. it is necessary to define precisely the boundaries of the powers of the authorities at each level. many groups within civil society feel marginalised, so it should be the european union's task to effectively involve them and to enhance the diversity of the society. empowering and respecting diversity is key to building a democratic society. cooperation between local authorities and civil society organisations should also be encouraged, as it ensures territorial development and strengthens democracy at local level. the functioning and the law of the european union are changing at a very fast pace, so it is only natural that local authorities and organisations in different countries present different levels. the european union should therefore also be responsible for encouraging the exchange of knowledge and experience between the new and old member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of adopting the report on local authorities and civil society: europe’s engagement in support of sustainable development, because it is my belief that there is still a lot to do in the civil society building process. a report like this offers a chance to move to the next and higher level. much is said about the positive aspects of societyʼs participation in local governance, the result of which is prosperity and consequently social satisfaction. civil budgets are an interesting example of that kind of activity, engaging citizens in discussing the future of their cities. the recommendations outlined in the report could allow for strong and wide networks being developed between local authorities and civil organisations which could contribute to the sustainable development of the eu. the report highlights that citizen engagement is one of the substantial factors of decentralisation. my duty as a member of the european parliament is to support all activities which could provide a positive impulse for sustainable development.
in writing. - the concept of civil society has developed from the notion of self-determination presented by j. j. rousseau. originally, self-determination was understood as a limitation of the sovereignty of state power and an extension of the sovereignty of public authority. in this case, the power contract is replaced by a social contract. power loses its character of violence: the remnants of the violentia will be removed from the auctoritas of state power. according to this concept, everything is decided by the will of the people, which unites and reconciles everyone and everyone in a situation where everyone decides about everyone and everyone decides about everyone. the starting point for any consideration of civil society is the self-actualizing, autonomous, accepting, and also seeking approval from others. it participates in economic, cultural, domestic, associational and any other activity that arises and develops in local environments. these, in turn, are the source of such initiatives unconstrained by the pressure of state power. the opposite is true where the state does not create a legal framework for this type of activity.
in writing. - today we can observe several problems facing the current education system in the european union. the social group facing the greatest problems in the labour market is young people who apply for their first job immediately after leaving school. as the statistics of march 2013 show, the unemployment rate for people under 25 years of age in the union is 23,5%. to prevent such high unemployment, universities must put more emphasis on more effective education, which focuses on acquiring language skills and entrepreneurial knowledge and promotes a system of vocational placements. another major problem is the mismatch between the skills acquired and the needs of the labour market. to this end, close cooperation between educational institutions, businesses, regional authorities and employers' and students' organisations is essential. this cooperation would enable us to identify precisely what the market really needs for specific occupational specialisations or training. in the face of the current economic crisis and the ageing of the population, we must take special care to ensure that adequate financial resources are secured to support education, quality training and education among young europeans, because investing in education is investing in europe's future.
in writing. - one of the most serious problems and challenges facing the european union today is the alarming rate of unemployment, especially among young people. effective, accessible to all citizens and representing a high level of education is the most important instrument to prevent the current situation on the labour market. the union should support programmes for adult and lifelong learning so that people in employment have the opportunity to re-qualify and change jobs during their careers. every citizen should have the chance to live a life of value, and therefore education and training should be more accessible to the most vulnerable groups, i.e. socially disadvantaged groups, people with disabilities, minorities, older citizens and women. the attitude of the people concerned is no less important than education that is modern and adapted to the requirements of the labour market. active citizenship and social inclusion are crucial. therefore, non-formal learning, youth work and volunteering should be promoted and recognised on an equal footing with formal education.
in writing. − europe is facing the challenge of changing education systems that are not adapted to the needs of the labour market, leading to increased unemployment on the one hand and a shortage of skilled workers on the other. this situation results in thousands of young graduates being unemployed, while many employers have difficulty finding qualified workers. this is a situation that is disadvantageous to both sides. the only way to address it is to fundamentally overhaul the education system as a whole, starting at the lower levels of education, and ending at the higher levels. a thoughtful approach and sustainable educational solutions are needed to prepare learners for the challenges of a constantly changing labour market. such action should be taken at both union and member state level. dialogue and cooperation with regional authorities as well as with various educational institutions, businesses, social services and ngos is also necessary. the union is certainly in a position to facilitate the free movement of young people within europe and the mutual recognition of professional qualifications and skills, which leads to the penetration of national labour markets may result in at least partial saturation of these markets, both with suitably qualified workers and with decent work.
in writing. − the european commission presented its latest education strategy under the heading 'a new approach to education: investing in skills for better socioeconomic outcomes'. there are many elements that etwinners might be interested in. these relate both to specific subjects and to the use of technology in the learning process; some of them are briefly described below: • increased emphasis on the development of general and basic skills at all stages of education, in particular entrepreneurship and it skills. • a new benchmark for language learning. • investment is needed to create world-class vocational education and training systems and to increase the use of learning by doing. • member states must recognise more qualifications and skills, including those acquired outside the formal education and training system. • make full use of technological solutions, in particular the internet. access to education should be increased through open educational resources. • these reforms must be supported by well-trained, motivated and enterprising teachers. one of the main elements of this strategy is to support teachers to achieve better learning outcomes. the aim of the strategy is to improve the quality of teacher education and the efficiency and effectiveness of education.
in writing. - thank you to the rapporteur for the report on the new approach to education. the high rate of unemployment, especially among young people, is prompting action to prevent this. it is therefore necessary to provide young people with support and to orient the education system to the needs of society and the labour market. the european commission has published a report on the implementation of the european year of lifelong learning in the european union. however, it is crucial that each member state is able to decide for itself the future of its education system. i therefore believe that the european union should not interfere with these powers in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the management of the european union's preaccession funds in the areas of judicial systems and the fight against corruption in the candidate countries. the fight against corruption and organised crime is one of the priorities of every country applying for membership of the european union. the rule of law is the basis for the functioning of the market economy, which is the domain of the union. recalling the experience of the croatian accession negotiations, it should be noted that a strong political commitment to combating organised crime and corruption was key to the success of the european union integration process.
in writing. − with the end of the 2007/2013 budget period, which included the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa) for countries wishing to join the european union, lessons from previous years should be drawn to apply more strategically the measures under the new instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa ii) to allow for more effective assistance. the fight against corruption and crime should be a priority on the road to full membership of the european union. a state governed by the rule of law and a democracy cannot exist without a fully independent, predictable and effective judicial system. in a state governed by the rule of law, the judiciary must inspire the confidence of both business and the public, and judges, prosecutors and other officials should be able to undergo continuous professional training, continuously improving their qualifications and thus the level of the judiciary as a whole. another instrument of civil society is a free press and independent media, which are essential tools in the fight against corruption. the ipa should therefore cover not only governments, the judiciary, administrative structures, but also the media. free access to information, freedom of expression are what a well-functioning civil society, a state based on the rule of law, is hard to imagine without, and this is what both candidate and potential candidate countries are striving for.
in writing. - there's a long line in the lobby waiting for the community. some of them are quite impatient, they've been waiting for over 30 years... so far, only one rider has a ticket with a date on it. the european parliament voted on its 'enlargement' position in mid-april. the document provides an assessment of the progress made in preparing for eu membership by eight candidate countries: croatia, fyrom (former yugoslav republic of moldova), iceland, montenegro, serbia, bosnia and herzegovina, kosovo and turkey. the eu as a nobel peace prize winner maintains its will to enlarge the community with other countries in the name of strengthening peace, security and prosperity on the continent and enhancing the eu's standing on the international stage despite the economic crisis. the report on the enlargement strategy, beyond assessing the progress of countries on their way to the eu, focused on the reforms these countries need to undertake to join the community. membership of the eu is subject to very specific conditions for achieving 'full democratisation', including: effective participation of the public in political life, an independent and efficient judiciary, an efficient public administration, effective tools to fight corruption, guarantees of freedom of expression, assembly, equal opportunities for all citizens with respect for minority rights. in addition, economic stabilisation is required.
in writing. −patient safety is the first principle of health protection. every point in the care process has a gap that needs to be closed to protect the patient as best as possible. adverse reactions may be due to problems in practice, products, procedures or systems. improving patient safety requires improving a comprehensive, nationwide system that includes a wide range of measures to improve efficiency, environmental safety and risk management, including infection control, safe use of medicines, equipment safety, safe clinical practice and a safe patient care environment.
in writing. − protection of businesses against misleading advertising practices remains low in many countries. the most prominent example is the offering of business directory listings on unfair terms, resulting in the evasion of fees. the victims of such practices are mainly micro-enterprises. this is why close cooperation between governments, business organisations and company management seems necessary. i hope that the european commission will study this problem in depth and take action to inform the public. a european-wide list of misleading practices would be helpful, but not necessarily a list of companies subject to penalties. the idea of tax authorities monitoring companies that engage in dishonest practices is a source of mixed feelings. fiscal controls should concern fiscal irregularities and not cases of abuse of powers in relation to the activities carried out.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the cornelis de jong report on misleading advertising practices. as we know, advertising is now ubiquitous in the media and has a huge impact on the image of any company. it is also a very important element of any marketing strategy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. this is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the main driving force of the economies of many member states. dishonest advertising is sold in the form of erroneous payment forms, entries in business directories and is also very common in the domain environment, thereby negatively affecting competition in the internal markets. i therefore believe that it is appropriate to introduce a uniform level of protection for companies in the european union and to create a common database of companies engaged in fraudulent activities. i am also convinced that international cooperation between the national law enforcement authorities of the member states will greatly improve the detection and prosecution of dishonest service providers.
in writing. − misleading marketing practices have developed and may take many forms; one of the most prominent practices is misleading directory company schemes. in this scenario, a company sends out forms inviting businesses to complete or update their business name and contact details ‘for free’, only for the businesses to discover later that they have, in fact, unintentionally signed up to a contract to be listed in a business directory at a yearly charge of eur 1 000 or more. given the frequency of these practices and the fact that the level of protection varies between member states, the commission published a communication on protecting businesses against misleading marketing practices and ensuring effective enforcement. the current report supports the communication but asks for additional measures, particularly in the field of prevention and information, enforcement and prosecution. seeing that misleading marketing practices are not a purely european phenomenon, the report further stressed the importance of international cooperation in combating these practices. taking into account the vulnerability of businesses and smes, especially in the current financial circumstances, i believe that the eu should adopt a common position to minimise the practices of misleading advertisements. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − unfair advertising practices are a serious barrier to the internal market and make it difficult for businesses to operate. i voted in favour of the report because it points to the need for better information exchange between member states and also supports the commission's intention to explore the possibility of drawing up an eu-wide blacklist of misleading marketing practices. international cooperation to combat such practices is key here, as misleading marketing practices are often cross-border in nature. it is equally important to inform companies about the forms of these unfair marketing practices. companies often do not realize that, for example, agreeing to a free listing in a business directory can result in hidden costs of up to several thousand dollars, and these unfair practices can take many different forms. the commission and the member states should therefore work together to promote awareness and information initiatives for all businesses and to exchange best practices between them to raise awareness of the risks. the european commission's communication on this issue is a step in the right direction, but we can be even more ambitious and take additional measures, for example in the areas of prevention, information, enforcement and prosecution, to protect businesses from unfair trading practices. the report adopted today also addresses these issues.
in writing. - today, each of us, often without realizing it, is the target audience of advertising. when we watch television, listen to the radio, read the newspaper, or surf the internet, we are bombarded with all kinds of advertisements. this is justified (advertising is often the biggest source of income for a tv, radio, publishing house or website owner) if it is presented in a transparent way, clearly separated from the rest of the content and presents a genuine commercial offer. however, the situation is radically different when advertising is hidden between the lines of a programme or text, presented as part of the content of a publication or broadcast, or when it offers false goods and services. the consumer is simply being deceived, exposed to financial loss and sometimes even to breaking the law. attempts to extort money are also common (who among us has not received an offer to use the money of an african millionaire who is legally obliged to transfer his fortune to an account we provide?). unfair advertising practices are extremely widespread and cause serious problems not only for individual consumers but for entire businesses, harming the citizens and economies of the member states. regulations are therefore necessary to simplify complaint procedures, to ensure assistance to victims of fraud and to eliminate sources of unfair practices.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the report on misleading advertising practices because i feel obligated to support every action to prevent smes in europe from illegal practices exposing them to loss. the report states that smes lose amounts of several billion euro because of misleading advertisements. all can agree that the european economy depends on such entrepreneurs. it is important to protect them especially in a time of crisis. we should remember that smes provide two out of every three private sector jobs and contribute to more than half of the total value-added created by businesses in the eu. one of the main ideas of the founding fathers was a free market in the eu. nowadays we are close to it. in my view a free market is not only about liberalisation but also about fair play regulations and this report is the perfect tool to enforce these kinds of rules. our work and care for smes could be a great motivation for people who want to set up a business. therefore the eu should itself encourage entrepreneurs to invest and develop.
in writing. − if an act of unfair competition or unfair market practice infringes the collective interests of consumers, the president of the occp may take action to eliminate the practice. some businessmen, in order to increase their profits, resort to methods that have little to do with honest competition for customers. many abuses are associated with advertising products and services. however, it is not only other traders (competitors) and the advertisers themselves (consumers) who can fight misleading advertising, but also the president of the office for competition and consumer protection. misleading advertising is any advertising message which, by any means, including the manner in which it is presented, misleads or is likely to mislead the persons to whom it is addressed or to whom it is sent, with the result that it is likely to affect their business conduct or, for that reason, to harm or be likely to harm competitors.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his comprehensive report on all the main issues related to the fight against corruption. corruption must be fought because it is a pathology that destroys social life and the state, and leads to injustice and injustice. we should fight it not only by prosecuting it, but also - and above all - by preventing it, by eliminating the corruption-producing mechanisms, the pathologies that occur, for example, in the creation of laws that encourage corruption and allow the arbitrary conduct of state institutions. i have a problem with this report, however, that paragraph 13, which proposes the introduction of a european public prosecutor, is unacceptable and if the proposal to delete this entry is not adopted, i will not be able to vote in favour of this report. let us not create new european institutions, let us cooperate within the framework of the existing state institutions.
mr. chairman, please! i sometimes get the impression that criminal organisations have less difficulty in establishing rules for each other to operate in the european single market than member states do in establishing rules to combat this criminal activity, and that is a poor summary of our work over the last year and a half. the content of the excellent report drawn up by mr iacolino makes us aware that the scope of the activities of criminal organisations is growing, that they are increasingly affecting the social and economic life of the member states. the security of our citizens is at stake, and the eu economy is suffering billions of dollars in losses. it seems that in our hearings and workshops over the past year and a half, we have been able to map this crime and identify what actions should be taken to effectively counter it. the problem is that we now, together - the member states and the institutions of the european union - have the will and the strength to fight corruption and money laundering, the activities of organised crime. two things are needed: a willingness to cooperate and the introduction of community minimum standards at criminal and civil law level to combat this crime more effectively. i would also like to stress very strongly that perhaps nowhere is the speed and efficiency of the response of both the legislative and the executive powers so necessary as in the fight against crossborder crime, which uses increasingly sophisticated instruments and takes on increasingly surprising forms.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ignorance of the law is no good. we all know that. however, it is difficult to expect every citizen to be well versed in the law, especially when the case is complex and involves, for example, a cross-border dispute. the e-justice portal is therefore intended to be an easy way to access both national and union legislation. however, the e-justice portal should not be merely a platform for the exchange of good practice or a training tool for judicial staff. we need to reach out to citizens who often do not know where to go for advice, initial information or help in civil, criminal or commercial matters. we need to put more emphasis on promoting such online platforms among the citizens of the european union, thereby increasing legal awareness and the opportunities that community law gives us. in its resolution, the european parliament underlines the importance of this portal in terms of disseminating knowledge and quick access to standardised forms or promoting online tools allowing for efficient communication between different legal systems. we are now in the final stages of the 'justice' programme for 2014-2020, in which we emphasise the importance of easy and rapid access to justice for all citizens. i believe that the e-justice portal has the potential to become a window on the world of the rule of law for all citizens of the union. it is therefore absolutely essential to promote and develop it further. to this end, it is necessary to clearly define the basis and detailed forms of its operation for the following years, including the financing of this project. i would like to thank mr leškevičius for the proposals which the council is already putting forward and to assure him of parliament's willingness to cooperate so that this programme can function as well as possible.
mr. chairman, please! the e-justice platform has been in operation for over 3 years and we are that much closer to the goal of turning the european portals into a universal contact point in the field of justice. today, every european can access legal and judicial procedures from all the union's national systems, in all the official languages. we have the european prosecution order, the european payment order, and after the implementation of the reforms in the brussels i package, we will also have the european civil litigation tool. however, in order to ensure the proper use of these instruments, citizens must have access to information about them and the possibility to report their possible ineffectiveness. i am currently dealing with a very sad case of a child abduction from poland by a greek father who has been deprived of parental rights, and i can see how flawed the european arrest warrant system is in this case. the requirements of a legally effective injunction are ignored by the greek authorities and there is no effective way to enforce them. in such cases, the e-justice platform could be used to bring a complaint for negligence or simply to put pressure on a state that is not complying with european rules. in addition to calling for practical and substantive improvements to the e-justice platform, i would also like to call on the committees of the member states to promote the portal more and to disseminate its ideas among citizens.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to point out that the idea of the e-justice platform is a good idea. the experience of the last four years confirms this. this web-based tool speeds up the flow of information above all. but the fundamental question is: who benefits most from this system? if you look at it, it's mostly the national administrations that benefit. i think that much more care should be taken to ensure that citizens can benefit from this system. i have two specific proposals to make in this connection. the first proposal is that translations of judgments, including those of the european court of human rights, should be published on this platform. second sentence there should also be precise models of the individual pleadings.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to raise a pressing issue related to the issue of citizen mobility. in a few days, a very important directive on cross-border treatment will come into force. this means that the frontiers are open to patients who can now seek treatment in any facility of their choice throughout the community. although most member states have made the necessary changes, the implementation of this law in poland leaves much to be desired. there's still no law to protect it. the health department is concerned about the state of the economy and is trying to limit the patient's entitlements. for example, reimbursement of medical expenses would probably require the consent of the national insurer on each occasion, which is clearly contrary to the nature of the directive. i consider this directive to be a major legal achievement in the interests of citizens. i look to the polish government to take constructive action to ensure that the benefits of the agreement are guaranteed.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to ask you to give me a rule that says that you can decide whether we can use the blue card or not when we also have the opportunity to speak.
a recent report from the european commission clearly confirms that the vast majority of european union citizens move to another member state primarily for the purpose of taking up employment. the commission also made it clear that the so-called 'benefit tourism' is neither widespread nor systematic. studies show that citizens who migrate within the european union are a great asset to the host country. between 2004 and 2009 alone, migrants contributed 1% to the gdp of the eu-15. in addition, by working hard, they pay taxes in the receiving countries and contribute to the common budget, thereby gaining the right to the social benefits they have earned. it should also be noted that immigrants from the european union represent only a small proportion of those receiving benefits and their impact on national budgets is also insignificant. of course, there will always be individuals who want to exploit the system, and i think everyone in this room would agree that these practices should be fought. but let's not let this kind of behaviour fuel the anti-immigration and anti-european rhetoric that we've been dealing with lately. it is also depressing that the criticism often directed at workers from central and eastern europe is a populist attempt to win over the electorate or a manifestation of the irresponsible attitude of some governments, which effectively hinders citizens from functioning together in europe. when we talk a lot about the alleged abuse of the social systems of the member states, we rarely talk about how often migrant workers are deprived of their rights and the difficulties they face before they take up work. many member states continue to increase the barriers to access to their labour markets, forgetting the value of people who are willing to work, dynamic and full of ideas. so let's not discourage them at the outset and instead focus on proper implementation and enforcement.
mr. chairman, please! the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental achievements and pillars of the european union. when asked what the union means to them, the vast majority of citizens of the member states put the freedom to move, work or further their education in their member state of choice first. such mobility of union citizens has been supported by us on many occasions and deserves to be promoted as it serves economic development and social progress. the fact that people rarely change their place of residence in order to benefit from the better social assistance system in the host country should not be a limiting factor. so i'm very happy that the union is publishing this research. mr farage said that the commissioner has the power to decide who pays taxes in the uk and how much, and i wanted to ask the commissioner if that was true or if, once again, eu citizens are being misled.
mr. chairman, please! the free movement of citizens is one of the most important rights guaranteed by the treaty, which belongs to all of us as citizens. this discussion is extremely important because the crisis and the economic problems are forcing people to move. all the activities we do are designed to promote mobility. today, two million jobs are still waiting for skilled workers from across the european union. like many people from my country, poland, it fuels the labour market in england and ireland. it's hard to imagine today, for example, a construction sector, a service sector, if it weren't for the polish migrants who are helping the uk economy. these are people who pay taxes, and they're entitled to benefits, of course. that is why i think it is important to focus on helping illegal immigrants. immigrants, mainly from outside the european union, are the biggest challenge right now.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, three years before the eastern partnership as such was created in this house, the idea was launched to have a multilateral parliamentary dimension for our individual eastern neighbours. this led to the creation of euronest. my report is an assessment of the state of the eastern partnership (eap) project; it is an assessment, both positive and critical, on eu performance and on our eastern partners. it is also an assessment carried out on a country-by-country basis. our vote on the report tomorrow will be the expression of parliament’s position on the eap before the forthcoming vilnius summit. it is therefore important to send a strong message that we are taking decisions which will impart great leverage for the future of the eastern partnership, because today the picture is very mixed and blurred. we are facing a two-speed – if not multi-speed – integration perspective. in reality the train towards vilnius is starting to move, but some cars have already left the platform, some have detached themselves at the last minute and some are, at best, unsure as to which direction they want to travel in, or whether they want to go the other way. the european parliament will persist in its expectation that necessary and clearly-formulated conditions must be fulfilled before association agreements (aa) can be finalised and can enter into force. those who might sign an aa will have to implement it in a committed way. those who might initial it need to follow the reform path before signing is possible. the outstanding problems are the rule of law and the state of democracy, including electoral systems and judiciary systems and selective justice, and all of these are receiving parliament’s full attention. our systems and political values cannot be aligned without solving these problems. we as a parliament also express strong opposition to russia’s pressure aimed at deterring those countries from associating with the union. but this pressure, paradoxically, has borne a new dynamic. the eu should show support and solidarity to its partner countries. we need an incentive-based, differentiated approach based on a more-for-more and less-for-less principle. ukraine will be decisive for the shape of the eastern partnership because of the president and because of the size and importance of the country. we as a parliament say in this report that we conditionally support the signing in vilnius. we conditionally support the provisional application afterwards, and we express our intention to ratify as soon as possible within the mandate of this parliament. the fate of the association agreement – the first one to be signed – is now in the hands of the president of ukraine, who must deliver on commitments that will pave the way for – we hope – the successful continuation of the association process and the eastern partnership as such in future.
madam president! two years ago, the world looked much simpler, much easier. the neighbourhood policy, the one to the south and the one to the east, seemed to have a good prospect. it is time to remember the authors of this policy, especially in the eastern dimension: poland and sweden, and the foreign ministers who defined this policy. the team that has been running it for the last two years, mrs ashton and mr fulgo, should also be mentioned. it was a consistent and consistent policy. today we have three agreements on the table, we have a glass half empty or half full. it's debatable whether that's a lot or a little. and we have a crisis because there are countries that don't want to take advantage of this policy, they're pulling out of it. we have a new player because russia has shown its teeth and has shown that it is about geopolitics and not about sovereign choices of countries and peoples. today, from this room and tomorrow, during the voting, there must be a simple message that this must be signed, this must be done. we have to give these people hope and faith that this is not a policy that forces anything, but that this is an offer that people living in these countries can make to change their lives for the better, they can hope to live better. we have to do it now, because if we don't do it now, we probably won't do it for many, many years, and we certainly won't be in this game anymore. in 20 years, my grandchildren might ask me, "how did you do that?" how did you manage to make the european union, this great community of values and hopes, expand eastwards? i wish i had a good answer to how you did it, but i'm also so afraid that the same person, my granddaughter or my grandson, will ask me, "why didn't you do it?" i wouldn't know what to say.
madam president! anyone who comes to the european parliament every day should take a look at this building. he'll understand what's going on. the point is that we are not doing anyone a favour, we are not giving the association agreement as a christmas present, we are simply trying to complete the construction of europe, which is not yet fully completed, and this building expresses that. what are the mechanisms that cause europe to fold? first, the abolition of the visa regime. second, the common law. not money, not aid, but common law. we are at the moment today when all this has a chance to happen at the vilnius summit. i've been watching the european union's eastern policy for many years. four or three years ago, i was a skeptic. i wrote a lot of texts in which i laughed at the eastern partnership as ineffective. i can tell you today that a lot has changed over the years. thanks to the political attitude of štefan füle and his team, the european union will gain in importance if it does what it has planned, i.e. signs and prepares the association agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine, and does not leave the other three countries to themselves, because the time will come for them too. today, let's take a step back from these fleeting details and look at the structure of europe. it's unfinished and we have a chance to make a big step in the next two months. it's in our hands, but we can also break it.
madam president! the european neighbourhood policy, and above all its eastern dimension, should be one of the priorities of the european union. the main objective of helping the countries covered by this policy is not only to bring them closer to european standards, but also, as we stress in today's resolution, to enable them to apply for membership of the european union. it is good that parliament sees a particular russian drive to remove all the eastern partnership countries, namely armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, belarus, moldova and ukraine, from the project. russia uses financial and trade instruments, among others, to do this. to keep these countries in the european sphere of influence, an urgent increase in the commitment to the eastern partnership is needed. the union currently allocates an average of several hundred million euro per year to the six eastern partnership countries. it's certainly too little to beat the russian bid. at the same time, however, we must control the appropriateness of the use of these amounts.
madam president! the eastern partnership summit is approaching, and the signing of the association agreement with ukraine will undoubtedly be the highlight of the summit. despite the kremlin's extremely aggressive policy in recent weeks to discourage kiev from cooperating with brussels, i express my deep hope that the long-standing negotiations will be crowned with success. the successful outcome of the vilnius summit will be a milestone in the development of the partnership in the years to come. it will send a clear signal to other countries, such as moldova and georgia, about the strategy to be implemented in today's complex geopolitical situation. the key argument in our relations with the east is financial support, which makes it easier for these countries to bring their institutions and economies up to european standards. it would also be invaluable to increase the community's diplomatic engagement, especially in the face of such clear pressure from russia.
madam president! there are those who say we've achieved only half a success. three of the six countries are still in talks. i hope that in the case of ukraine they will end with the signing of an association agreement and in the case of moldova and georgia with the initialling of an association agreement. of course, the problem is that it didn't work with armenia because the president of that country made a different strategic decision. it also failed with azerbaijan, which is still undecided. in the case of belarus, it's pretty obvious, because you know that the political system in that country doesn't allow you to make the decision that you think about. these three countries are the key to success. three countries, full of enthusiasm, with great support for the initiative and the idea of deep cooperation with the european union. one last thing. i think that in referring to georgia or moldova, it is worth saying from this place, loudly, to the people of the breakaway regions, transnistria, abkhazia and south ossetia, that this is also a great opportunity for them and that they should think about how much deeper cooperation with the european union can bring to their regions.
madam president! jacek saryusz-wolski and pier antonio panzeri have prepared a very good report. this is a good basis for the future of the neighbourhood policy. but i would point out that first of all we are faced with a certain impatience and weariness when it comes to the neighbourhood policy. secondly, the eastern partnership has a dynamic that varies from resignation, through indecision, to acceptance, as exemplified by moldova. but it's also sometimes the result of our previous neglect, before the slogan "more for more". thirdly, the southern partnership is still in the turmoil of the arab spring and is still in the shadow of the humanitarian disaster in syria. i think we should encourage people to overcome their difficulties. i therefore call for us to have more faith in the citizens of the eastern partnership countries. my friend hokmark said, "let's leave the door open". apart from the association agreement, we must work on visa facilitation, because it is essential, especially for young people. fourth, we cannot accept selective justice and political pressure to maintain a political sphere of influence. finally, i would like to say that i believe that despite the difficulties, the vilnius summit can be a success. we have new instruments, such as the european endowment for democracy. i wish you, myself and the union all the best.
madam president! we are all waiting for the signing of the association agreement between the european union and ukraine today. the main obstacle is the unresolved issue of ms. tymoshenko. we must be careful not to make a mistake in political calculation. president yanukovych cannot rely on the obvious assumption that the project is of strategic importance and that the entire ukrainian nation cannot be held hostage to the fate of one person. it may turn out that the imprisonment of ms. tymoshenko is a good excuse for those who do not want to jeopardize the interests of the kremlin. the european union must remember that the logic of association, if signed, will surely lead to the dismissal of the prime minister. on the other hand, failure to sign the agreement will make president yanukovych unmotivated enough to release ms tymoshenko from prison. in the last weeks before vilnius, we must remember this. let's not tighten the conditions, let's not be prisoners of our own argument, let's keep our fingers crossed for the mission of mr. kwaśniewski and mr. cox. the signing of the agreement will be beneficial for both the union and ukraine. conversely, failure to sign the agreement will be a great loss for both the union and ukraine.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. i'd like to focus on belarus. the draft resolution describes well the difficulties of cooperation with belarus. we deplore the stagnation in human rights, democracy and political prisoners and the lack of progress in respecting the values and standards promoted by the european union. we demand that the union engage critically. it's not easy, but it's worth a try. the lithuanian presidency and the vilnius summit are further opportunities to improve relations with belarus. but whether these opportunities are taken up depends first and foremost on belarus. the european parliament's delegation for relations with belarus has tried to organise a mission to belarus twice this year, but unfortunately we have not been able to reach an agreement with the belarusian authorities. i hope that belarus will decide to engage in a real dialogue, because, as in the case of ukraine, this would be beneficial both for belarus itself and for the european union.
madam president, mr commissioner, i am really looking forward to the upcoming vilnius summit. it has the potential to become a milestone in our relations with the eastern partnership countries. this could be our european union success – something we very much need at this point in our history. without a doubt, ukraine will meet the conditions of their association and free trade agreements, so now there is a need for political will on both sides. ukraine has been an honest member of the wto since 2008 and will be an honest partner of the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. what is perhaps more important for the european union is that this economic integration will, hopefully, lead to political integration. we need ukraine and other countries of the eastern partnership to embrace european values, including the rule of law and democratic government. they cannot be allowed to slip away from those values as russia has done and is doing nowadays. so thank you very much, commissioner, for your efforts and for the work you have done. i look forward very much to the further successes of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! the european maritime and fisheries fund is an essential element of the common fisheries policy. the shape of the sea will determine the future and the sustainability of european fisheries. the question is therefore whether the fund is intended to promote fishing or to reduce it. i am convinced that fishermen, especially small-scale fishermen, must be supported by eu funds. this is primarily in the interest of the member states, which should take due care to protect and develop this sector. it is also a challenge for parliament and the european union as a whole to ensure job creation, tackle unemployment and develop areas dependent on fisheries. it must also be an incentive for the younger generation, which will find in fishing, especially family-based fishing, which is passed on from generation to generation, the support it needs to cultivate the fishermen's profession. in order to ensure adequate safety at sea and working conditions, the modernisation and replacement of fishing vessels must be encouraged. all of these elements will shape the future of the fisheries sector, which plays a vital role in ensuring the food security of the european union.
mr. chairman, please! first of all, i would like to thank mr cadec for his report, which i agree with. unlike most of my colleagues, i won't talk about renewing the fleet or replacing the engines. i would like to draw attention to the changes in aquaculture. aquaculture is the most efficient source of protein, with the least environmental impact compared to other types of farming. the aquaculture sector in the european union is a major industry with a turnover of around eur 2.9 billion. it creates about 70 000 jobs. we must therefore do everything we can to eliminate the regulations that may hinder the intensive development of this industry. examples include support for investments in the sector that only concern native aquaculture species. i think we should be more flexible and support production so that the eu market is more competitive in the world. there is no reason to exclude funding for non-indigenous species with high market potential whose production methods are environmentally friendly. these species have been successfully produced in some member states for many years and play an important role in the development of aquaculture. i know that your work as a reporter has been very difficult. you have to be able to negotiate to reach a compromise. i may not agree with the rapporteur on everything, but congratulations on your success. the document is good and is a great starting point for further negotiations with the council and the commission.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think this has been a very good and helpful discussion, because the arguments were very clear. i think what the committee on fisheries and all of you have done in recent months is very important. i do not want to undermine what has already been achieved, and i think there is a general consensus between you on many issues. for example, everybody agrees that we have to spend more money – in a careful way, of course – on collecting data on sustainable fisheries, controls, new gears, a new environmental approach to the preservation of stocks, training for young fishermen and helping them to enter the profession. there is also great support for giving money to remote areas like the black sea, to the remotest regions or to aquaculture. we have discussed aquaculture a lot, and what we really need here is to promote sustainable aquaculture that is very environmentally-friendly and does not undermine the living conditions of the coastal regions. there is also a general consensus about helping to promote local and small-scale fisheries. i totally agree with this approach. we have to bear in mind that this is why we have kept the current definition of small-scale vessels. for the moment, 80 % of our vessels are covered under this definition. if we loosen the definition to include more vessels, the differentiation will actually make no sense, because what we have to spend is not unlimited. we have a certain amount of money and we have to distribute it in a good way. there are, of course, different opinions on the construction of new vessels. i do not want to give more arguments; i think there was a very good discussion and that the arguments from both sides are clear enough. parliament is going to vote and decide. in any case, all i can say is that we are going to respect parliament and, in the trilogue, the commission is going to defend again its own proposal and its own position. this is because we think that there will be a contradiction with reference to the measures we are going to introduce for temporary scrapping and temporary cessation measures.
in writing. the common fisheries policy addresses the problems facing europe's seas, such as overfishing and pollution. however, the equally important aspect of fisheries and fisheries, namely the fishing fleets and the processing industry, which generate employment and turnover in coastal areas, should not be forgotten. the report of parliament is a response to expectations for the protection of the seas. i fully support the establishment of a ban on discards or a limitation of fishing quotas. however, ambitious proposals must be backed up by sound means of implementation. i see this as the possibility of increasing the resources for the collection of data on catches and controls flexibly. the key to stopping overfishing is to identify its sources accurately. however, i believe that the new cap should include targeted measures for the limited modernisation of fishing fleets, especially for the new eu member states, which have never had the chance to benefit from such support. as a result, fleets such as poland's are now among the oldest in europe, reflected in their inability to conserve their catch, increased greenhouse gas and pollution emissions and, above all, the danger to fishermen. this in turn translates into an unfairly low competitiveness of polish fisheries. in addition, actions such as grants for young fishermen should be supported, as they can help to combat unemployment and rejuvenate european fisheries.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i believe that sea knowledge 2020 is one of those projects where you can say, 'why now?' i think this initiative is to be commended. the report leaves no room for doubt. there is currently no single comprehensive database on the sea, fisheries and fishing fleets in the european union. the information is dispersed among various public and private institutions. only by harmonizing these bases will we be able to guarantee the fullest possible knowledge of the marine ecosystem. it will help to protect the marine environment more effectively, while at the same time reconciling the needs of marine fauna and flora with the interests of fishermen and processors. equally important, the 'knowledge of the sea 2020' initiative coincides with the launch of the new european maritime and fisheries fund. one of the principles of the european union is transparency. the initiative will also make transparency a cornerstone of european fisheries. i am sure that this will be welcomed by the european community. the european union citizen wants to know where his money is going. with a full database, we will be able to spend our money better, more efficiently and, most importantly, we will be able to rationally assess the results that we achieve with this money. that is what the people of the european union expect of us.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by congratulating mrs neves on a very well-prepared report. marine knowledge 2020, and above all seabed mapping, is a vast area of knowledge that remains unknown in the european union. for many sectors of the economy, this is a key element of planning, investment, and risk assessment, but it is much more important for fisheries and species conservation. the baltic sea is a good example, where, because of the lack of information on tuna, such as cod, industrial fishing is allowed, even though it is supposedly harmless. as a result, aquatic animals that have the right reproductive conditions are not adequately protected. the problem is also related to the feeding areas of the species. the lack of basic knowledge leads to a flood of conflicting information on the migration of species, and as a result, it hinders the rapid and necessary decision-making. implementation of this directive offers the opportunity to fill the gap in scientific research into the marine environment, which is the biggest pain point of the common fisheries policy and leads to wrong decisions. through reliable and trustworthy data, cooperation between fishermen and scientists has a chance to be normalised on the basis of mutual respect.
in writing. – the next council meeting is set to focus on economic affairs, particularly on research, innovation, job creation and youth unemployment, etc. these are all fields that require investment and long-term commitment. therefore, it is rather ironic that the council's strategy has been going in the opposite direction. this can be seen with the eu's 2014 budget, where the council made overall cuts of eur 240.7 million in commitment appropriations, and eur 1.06 billion in payment appropriations. these cuts represent a decrease in the funding available in 2014 for programmes that will drive growth and productivity. another example is the eu's long-term budget, mff 2014-2020, where the council has yet to formally accept the second tranche of eur 3.9 billion – funds that are needed to pay the outstanding bills for 2013. therefore, ahead of the meeting of the council, i would like to remind the member states that actions speak louder than words. by failing to take the necessary actions, the council is neglecting its commitments to our institutions, and – more importantly – failing to live up to the expectations of 26.5 million unemployed citizens in europe, of whom 5.4 million are under the age of 25. it is time for the council to back its words with solutions and actions.
in writing. the european semester, or european period of evaluation and coordination of economic policies, was established by one of the six-pack regulations in november 2011 and is intended to provide a framework for the implementation of the european semester. it is the basic framework for enhanced economic governance in the eu. it is intended to combine the actions provided for in the europe 2020 strategy and the so-called 'euro plus' pact. we are now in the fourth cycle of the european semester. it should be noted that the priorities set out by the commission in the context of the european semester are similar to those of previous years, i.e. continuing diversified and pro-growth fiscal consolidation, promoting economic growth and competitiveness, tackling unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis, and improving the functioning of public administration. importantly, there are already some signs of improvement in the european economy this year. the crisis-ridden euro area countries, which have undertaken difficult reforms, are slowly coming to grips with the situation. their imbalances in economic contacts are reduced and their competitiveness is increased. this in turn translates into a slow recovery in financial market confidence and a decline in the cost of debt financing.
madam president, i am proposing an amendment because the situation has changed and the two eastern partnership countries, namely armenia and azerbaijan, are no longer seeking association with the european union. for that reason i propose the following phrasing for this paragraph 16 which you have in your papers – if you wish i can read it – but in fact it eliminates the words about association agreements and brings together the first part of this paragraph with the second by adding the words ‘should comply with’. if the house would agree to that, it would mean that the split vote is not necessary – the further vote 1 and 2 is not necessary if this oral amendment eliminating some words and adding three words is accepted. that would fit the factual state of affairs on association.
madam president, given that the amendment on initialling has been approved by the house – which i am happy with – there is a need to amend paragraph 39 to make it refer to signing an association agreement with georgia. in this new formulation, it would read ‘believes that association agreement signing should be conditional on tangible progress by georgia in the area of the rule of law and of democracy and meeting european standards in the upcoming presidential elections’. the words ‘is supportive of initialling the association agreement but’ and ‘including the issue of political prisoners’ should be deleted. if this is approved, it would imply that in paragraph 40 we are deleting the word ‘immediately’ to make the whole thing logical.
madam president, if i understand properly, my proposal to delete the word ‘immediately’ from paragraph 40, while now voting in favour of paragraph 40, is accepted in order to make the whole thing logical. i proposed this today while speaking about paragraph 39, but i anticipated that if paragraph 39 in my oral formula is adopted, that would imply that the word ‘immediately’ will be deleted from paragraph 40.
in writing. − exports of drug precursors which require a customs declaration, including exports of drug precursors leaving the customs territory of the community after being stored in a free zone with control type i or in a duty-free warehouse for at least 10 days, require an export authorisation. exports of category 3 drug precursors require an export authorisation in cases where pre-export notification is required or where these substances are exported to certain destination countries (annex iv to commission regulation (ec) no 1277/2005).
in writing. − as with all drugs, the question of their potential precursors is controversial. on the one hand, we must bear in mind the possibility of illegal use of these substances on the black market, and on the other hand, we must bear in mind that they are legal components of many legal products. they are also often produced by small and medium-sized enterprises, for whom stricter rules on monitoring and registration of these substances may represent an additional burden. a careful balance must therefore be struck between the control of their " leakage " into the illicit market and the related burden on manufacturers legally using these substances . the report focuses on anhydrous vinegar, which is used legally to make perfumes and aspirin, but can also be used to make heroin, amphetamines and cocaine. according to the centre for drugs and drug addiction, it is one of the most commonly used and seized precursors in europe. i support the commission's proposal to improve the monitoring of the trade in acetic anhydride, but without imposing additional bureaucratic administrative burdens on the operators. i also think it is appropriate to create a european database on drug precursors. my only concerns are the numerous delegated acts that have been applied, which in my view leave too much decision-making power in the hands of the commission, which could lead to future tightening on further substances without clear grounds and without consulting the council and parliament.
in writing. − drug precursors are chemicals used in many industrial processes that can be misused for the illicit production of drugs. the european union has recently been accused of weak control measures, especially on the use of acetic acid. in order to improve the control of the illicit diversion of drug precursors, i voted in favour of this report, supporting the desire to overcome the problem by strengthening the monitoring of the trade in acetic acid, the rules on registration and the establishment of a european database of operators authorized to produce it. i believe that a revision of the regulation in this direction will allow for more extensive checks and, as a result, improve both their capacity and their effectiveness.
in writing. - today in the plenary we voted on the drug precursors. these are chemicals that are commonly used in various industrial processes (plastics, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, perfumes and detergents) but which may be used in ways that are not intended, i.e. to produce drugs. criminals rarely produce the drug precursors they intend to use for illicit drug production themselves, as their production often requires extensive infrastructure. instead, they often try to obtain drug precursors illegally, either through legitimate trade or by stealing. i believe that we should establish a european database on drug precursors, which will, among other things, make it easier for member states to report seizures and detentions of consignments as anonymously as possible and as minimally burdensome as possible in terms of the processing of personal data, taking into account the principle of limited data availability and modern privacy technologies. a european register of authorised operators and users should also be established to facilitate the verification of the legality of trade transactions involving scheduled substances and to enable undertakings to provide information to the competent authorities on their legal transactions involving scheduled substances.
in writing. − precursors are the main ingredients used to make synthetic and semi-synthetic drugs. although most people don't realize it, they are a key segment of drug crime. the polish law on drug addiction criminalizes the production, smuggling, trade, possession and storage of precursors. any of these acts committed for the purpose of illicit synthesis of drugs is punishable by a fine or imprisonment of up to 5 years. in this case, the most important thing for law enforcement is to prove that the precursors found are intended for the production of drugs. without this, only a fine is possible. another shortcoming is the absence of any provision in the legal act regarding the significance of the number of precursors. this means that in the eyes of the law, a person who smuggled a ton of bmk can be treated the same as a person who smuggled just one litre of the substance. there is also an article that punishes with a fine for failure to comply with the recordkeeping obligations of persons legally producing, transporting or trading precursors. this is very important because most precursors are dual-use substances, some of them very widely used in industry. such a provision in the law gives you some leeway to prevent precursors from being leaked from the legal market to the black market.
in writing. − the european e-justice portal is intended to act as a 'one-stop shop' providing information on european justice and european judicial proceedings. the portal is addressed to citizens, businesses, legal professionals and judicial staff.
mr president, i would like to make a few comments on mr brok’s report. firstly, ‘to establish a new and credible foreign policy’ is an indirect admission that we do not have such a policy. indeed, we do not – and we never will, unless it is imposed by those in the eu who are more equal upon those who are less equal. such a danger is not a figment of my imagination: the report states that the common foreign policy should be used ‘to overcome the inappropriate use of the veto within the council’. i do not know what an inappropriate use of the veto is – nobody does – but the statement is unabashed encouragement to intimidate those who dare to disagree. secondly, the report calls for the development of european media ‘to raise awareness of the common foreign policy’. this looks like an official blessing for political propaganda. for two-thirds of my life i lived in a communist system that tried to raise my awareness. it failed. please, baroness and dear colleagues, do not raise awareness – either mine or anyone else’s. thirdly, the report calls for a permanent seat for the eu on the security council. giving the eu a seat on the security council would make the eu a state, which it is not, and – god willing – never will be. such a statement is, in fact, an explicit affirmation of the federalist project, which is another reason why we should look at the common foreign policy with suspicion. fourthly, given the fact that the eu is notoriously undemocratic, a common foreign policy must mean another area of political unaccountability. do we not have enough of that already?
we are discussing today the common foreign and security policy of the european union. the european parliament's resolution, in paragraph 12, expresses its regret that the eu has not yet developed a clear strategy for its relations with the rest of the world and that its actions are defined more as reactions than as actions. the european parliament therefore acknowledges that four years after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which was supposed to give a new impetus to the union's so-called common foreign policy, the project has proved to be, to put it mildly, flawed. some in this room are calling the common foreign and security policy a joke, a costly joke for taxpayers. in this context, i would like to ask the high representative, mrs ashton, whether she thinks it is possible at all for the 28 member states to work out such a unified and clear strategy, and if so, what is the time horizon.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. i will start, as others have done, with compliments and - excuse me, madam high representative - i will start with the rapporteur. i just wanted to say that when mr brok writes a report, it is always an important and serious report, and this time it is the same, so i join in the congratulations that my colleagues have given. i also congratulate the high representative and, on the occasion of this comprehensive report, her team, because in these difficult circumstances, not only the difficult circumstances of the various conflicts in the world, but also the difficult circumstances within the european union, where we do not yet have a comprehensive and coherent foreign policy, i think a lot has been achieved. as part of the european parliament's delegations, i have travelled around the world and have seen that the european union's representations, for example, already play a very good role in coordinating the activities of the european union's national offices. so this cooperation between the union representation and the embassies of the union member states is in most cases very good. one thing i wanted to draw attention to, taking this opportunity, because we still have several unresolved conflicts in europe as well: i wanted to ask the high representative to redouble her efforts in the near future on the situation in georgia, and specifically on this strange border expansion, the construction of border infrastructure by the russians on the border between occupied south ossetia and the rest of georgia. it's something that's keeping people from moving, from having family contact, and we have to try to address it.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. the effectiveness and coherence of the european union's foreign policy will be tested in the east. if you and all of us are successful in what we call the eastern dimension of the european union, if all of this is successful, you will go down in history and we will not have to be ashamed in front of our grandchildren. if you and we are effective in dragging ukraine to the west, if you and we are effective in getting political prisoners out of prisons in belarus, from prisons that are 50 kilometers from the eu border, if you are effective, and we are effective with you, in helping moldova and georgia, if we are, you and we, effective in fighting for european interests and values, with a country that today imprisons greenpeace activists just because they had a little bit of courage to speak up about issues that are important to them, if you are effective in all of this, it will mean success for the european union and success for those countries. i would ask you to accept that it is not asia, africa or south america that are the test of the coherence and effectiveness of european policy, but the eastern dimension. i would ask you to pay close attention to this and you will have the support of the european parliament.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your support. the report on the common foreign and security policy deals, inter alia, with the uncertainty of the world situation. i would like to stress that we cannot reduce this uncertainty permanently as long as more than 840 million people in the world suffer from hunger. that is why what we call the european union's comprehensive approach to foreign policy is justified. so is everything else, like better coordination. with better coordination, we could use our resources much better, and that's important because we are the largest aid donor in the world. it is also important that our policies are consistent with the development objectives, especially as this is enshrined in the treaty. if there is no coherence, we end up in a situation where we give with one hand and take with the other. that's not how you build stability. a coherent, integrated, well-coordinated development policy will help us avoid many of the world's problems. we must not only fight the symptoms, but also the causes of the problems that threaten europe in the long term.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to draw attention to the fact that one of the elements of foreign policy is also security policy. as far as the implementation of this policy is concerned, we still have a long way to go before we can achieve progress and success. i would like to draw attention to one aspect of the political sphere. the eu's military operations - of which there have been several in recent years - have caused a number of problems and unfortunately also revealed a number of weaknesses. i suggest that we put a strong emphasis on pragmatic solutions, so that there is less debate, and instead we need to consistently create strategic joint transport, refuelling capacity, and also strive to improve the quality of telecommunications equipment. if we make progress in these areas, it will be easier to talk about a common policy.
in writing. respect for human rights and freedoms is one of the five objectives of the european union's common foreign and security policy (cfsp). this requires the development and application of uniform criteria for all third countries. we cannot take lightly the human rights violations of our strategic partners. we need a clear minimum of human rights to be respected in any talks with third countries. human rights and democracy should be taken into account at every stage of the foreign policy decision-making process. the union's external action must comply with the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and with the rights set out in the european convention on human rights. i also expect clear support from the union and the member states for the international institutions that promote and defend human rights. the planned budget cuts risk leaving insufficient financial support for the union's csdp objectives and commitments. the union's credibility on the international stage requires that the use of funds be coordinated, targeted and effective. that is why i support, inter alia, the preparation of separate budget lines for each csdp mission and operation.
the question asked by raising the blue card. i was delighted to welcome you to the house. i admire the dutch government's decision to take such a strong and firm stand for its citizens. unfortunately, the polish foreign minister said (i quote): "the greenpeace gentlemen should have known what they were getting into". my question to you is this: is there any way you can convince the polish government, but also the council and the commission, to adopt the same firm and decisive stance as the dutch government?
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. let's not get carried away! after all, anyone who knows modern russia, putin's russia, knows that these activists were not arrested there for taking any action, but for political action. anyone who knows modern putin's russia knows that there is no independent judiciary, that this is a political decision. and if this is a political decision, then it is a test of the european union's response to the unlawful detention of european union citizens on the curious, ridiculous, if not tragic, charge of piracy. and that means that russia is testing our response today. we have representatives of the russian embassy here today, who are welcome to be here, who are watching today's debate, but who will also be watching very closely how the european union is able to defend itself against the curious and ridiculous accusations of citizens of the european union countries. this is very much a test that vladimir putin has proposed, whether we can defend our citizens as the dutch government does, or whether we will accept that we will play in this case with pseudo-legal arguments, whether they had the right or not to test individual drilling rigs.
mr. chairman, please! there are several aspects of this matter which have been raised by many colleagues here. i have to say that i'm not always a fan of the methods greenpeace uses, although i'm very appreciative of the fact that the organization and its members are pointing out certain problems, places in the world where there are threats to the environment, and bringing them to the attention of the public and the media, and by doing so, they're getting us politicians to start taking an interest in them. so while i have some reservations about the methods, i do, of course, think that this is a very useful activity, and we should support it. on the other hand, i wanted to say that knowing a little bit about the russians, the russian federation and russian politics, and how they deal with things like drilling rigs and other installations and equipment, you could say that it's good that it ended up just like that. although, of course, we have a £30 arrest problem. arrested, of course, unjustly. i agree with mr. migalski that these allegations are curious. international law, maritime law, piracy law, all of that defines piracy in a very different way, and greenpeace was not a for-profit organization. these people didn't want to rob this platform, so we can't talk about piracy here. what are we dealing with here? we are dealing here, and i agree with mr migalski, with a demonstration and a test of our strength and the unity of the member states whose citizens are detained there, or of the forces of the european external action service. therefore, the actions of all embassies of the countries involved in the activities of the european external action service should be consistent and coherent.
mr. chairman, please! greenpeace activists are protesting against oil drilling in the barents sea because of the extreme climate conditions in the region, which makes the likelihood of an accident and spill very high. greenpeace's action should lead the european union to step up its work on a common international approach to the arctic and the control of its resources. of course, the most important thing today is to get russia to release the greenpeace activists from detention and drop the piracy charges, which would put them on the same level as the somali sea terrorists. i believe that the european union should negotiate diplomatically with moscow to recognise that greenpeace was acting in the common good and to ensure that the 1988 international protocol on countering unlawful acts against the safety of fixed platforms on the continental shelf does not apply in this case. i respect the courage of the crew of the detained ship and i do not seek to justify the actions of the russian authorities, but i would stress that in this case the european union will achieve more by a soft dialogue with russia than by escalating tensions. and while we're at it, let's also hit our democratic breasts. i would like to remind you that in the 1990s, french military intelligence blew up a greenpeace rainbow warrior ship in new zealand, killing the organization's photographer. greenpeace was protesting against french nuclear testing in new zealand.
mr. chairman, please! the first impression we get is that everyone did their part. the russian state and gazprom have been exploring for new deposits by drilling in the arctic. greenpeace did their thing. and as usual, he protested, taking the form of going up on the drilling platform, as always, without asking, without asking permission, without going into the legal complexities. greenpeace activists were accused of piracy, violation of international law and hooliganism. they're in prison and on trial. greenpeace demands that gazprom develop a good plan to deal with the consequences of a possible leak. experience, even recent, has shown that this is the case. if there is no plan, they are right to insist that there is. at the same time, greenpeace activists have faced a strong backlash. there is no doubt that they are not criminals threatening russia's security, so we should appeal to russia for a sensible and quick solution to the problem.
mr. chairman, please! the implementation of the principles of free movement of goods, services and capital in the modern world requires the smooth functioning of the digital single market. this mechanism is key to developing a knowledge-based economy, stimulating citizen engagement and boosting investment in human capital. unfortunately, a number of implementing rules are still being developed and are slowly being implemented in the member states. from a consumer perspective, i think it's extremely important to ensure net neutrality. the systematic development of modern telecommunications technologies, including the acceleration of the deployment of fourth generation telephony, is an absolute priority today. the elimination of roaming will obviously increase the competitiveness of mobile services in europe. i look forward to constructive initiatives by the commission to complete the digital market as soon as possible, so that its potential can be used to support the economic progress of the community.
mr. chairman, please! we welcome the honourable commissioner, our colleague trautmann. this is one of the first reports we've had where we're almost in sync. we all want a good, single market for electronic communications. this is important because electronic communications is part of the competitiveness and predictability package, but is also subject to the control of the european telecommunications regulatory authority. what's the most important thing? the most important are trans-european services, net neutrality. that's what our commissioner is fighting for, and that's something to be appreciated. telecommunications passports for operators are also important. we need to make sure that the operators have absolutely greater access to the network, so that there are no blockages on our borders. a common technology platform and the exchange of all information is also important. if we share the best examples with each other, it's a success. it doesn't matter which country is ahead of the others at what point. we should be the ones to set an example. if a country has a standard telecommunications access, these standards should be transported to all other countries. it is absolutely essential to reduce administrative burdens, because they are really a barrier to the development of the telecommunications network and market access. it is also important to establish legal provisions. we know that we europeans have to keep up with the development of the telecommunications network, the kind they have in the united states. for me, the most important slogan is: 'run, europe, because the others are already at the finish line'.
in writing. the creation of a single online market is clearly in the interest of the union as a whole. the obstacles and barriers that still exist prevent it from reaching its full potential. i agree with the commission that a market made up of 28 separate national telecommunications markets, with over 200 operators, cannot be friendly to either businesses or consumers. i therefore understand the commission's intentions in drawing up the legislative proposal. but i think the problem is so serious that it requires deep reflection and careful analysis. we cannot allow the legal arrangements adopted to make it even more difficult for the electronic market to function. the potential benefits are great, but the potential for harm from misregulation is also great. it is therefore perhaps surprising that the commission has decided to work at such a rapid pace. the doubts about the lack of sufficient public consultation on this proposal therefore seem justified. on the other hand, the internet sector is so dynamic that every month of delay can weaken our competitiveness in the global market. the european parliament must therefore do its utmost to ensure that the work on this regulation proceeds smoothly and leads to the adoption of solutions combining business facilitation with high consumer protection.
in writing. transparency and clear rules of lawmaking are among the basic features of democracy. one of the principles of european lawmaking is the participation of the european parliament in the legislative procedure. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european telecommunications network is based on the principle of the free movement of goods, services, capital and persons. i share the view that in such an important and complex matter the european parliament should not be surprised by new projects and should not take decisions under time pressure. so why does the commission intend to submit new proposals to the european parliament next year instead of carrying out a comprehensive review of the regulatory framework for electronic communications, which, given the end of its mandate, will prevent a thorough and substantive debate on this very important matter?
in writing. today's reality is based on information technology. in my view, any initiative or action to facilitate and improve data transmission is as important, if not more so, than infrastructure investment. i am pleased that the committee on industry, research and energy has decided to review the implementation of the regulatory framework for electronic communications, as it shows any shortcomings that we should correct as soon as possible. the report focuses on broadband internet access across the european union. it's worth looking at the regions. a review of eurostat data reveals a very significant problem of bandwidth in internet access between regions of the union. for example, broadband access in the stockholm region is 91%, while in the north-eastern region of romania it is only 17%. between 94% and 33% of citizens in the member states use the internet regularly. in poland too, the division into east and west is evident. the spreads are as high as 10% for both indicators. the report mentions the reduction of gaps in access to the latest information technologies between regions. indeed, our priority should be to ensure that no group of citizens is digitally excluded. the efforts of states to build an information society should be continuously supported.
mr. chairman, please! i am very pleased to be here today to talk about the future of the wine sector in europe. i represent poland, where - you may be surprised - quite good wines are produced, and wineries are growing, including in the podkarpaty, in my region. a few years ago, a wine tasting in the european parliament was held in podkarpackie, and it was very well received. but, commissioner, i have a request to make of you. a lot has changed in the wine industry in poland, the regulations that have hindered the development of the wine industry in my country, but there are still regulations that do not allow winemakers in poland and throughout the podkarpacie region to conduct and develop active activities, to continue planned activities. i would therefore ask you, in the context of this debate and of the commission's future action, to look at the legislation which, in my view, clearly and very clearly hinders the development of the wine industry in poland and throughout the podkarpacie.
in writing. a good strategy for the development of wine in the european union is an opportunity to solve many problems not only for those areas for which wine production is an important and often the only branch of development, but also for vineyards that are being created or revived after decades. i come from the podkarpaty region in poland, where after years of absence, vineyards are being created, mainly as small family farms, which are an important element that increases the tourist and agro-tourist attractiveness of the region. unfortunately, wine lovers and vineyard owners in my country face many problems and regulations that limit the development of the wine sector and the possibility of generating income from the sale of wine. that is why i welcome today's discussion and hope that it will help to solve the problems faced by both established and emerging winegrowing enterprises.
member of the commission. - madam president, even if you think i am a great carpathian specialist, because i come from a member state which has a large part of the carpathian area on its territory, i will speak today on behalf of the commission, in particular on behalf of my colleague johannes hahn, who is in charge of this dossier and who, unfortunately, was unable to be present. in general, the commission encourages closer cooperation between regions in order to improve the implementation of policies with a cross-border impact. for this reason, the commission supports and facilitates cooperation in the framework of macro-regional strategies. there are two of these: the baltic sea region and the danube region. i shall refer to them as they relate to the agenda. the aim of macro-regional strategies is to provide a coordinated response to problems which are more effectively tackled together than separately. the two existing strategies aim to overcome the obstacles to the development of the regions concerned and to exploit their potential. they encourage participants to overcome not only the limitations of national borders but also the barriers that restrict a more strategic and creative design of the assets in hand. the aim of macro-regional strategies is to mobilise new projects and initiatives to create a sense of shared responsibility. they are an important innovation for territorial cooperation and cohesion. in april this year, the commission published the first report on the implementation of the european union strategy for the danube region. it welcomed the good start of the strategy after two years of implementation. progress so far has included the establishment of innovative transnational projects, the creation of interconnections in the fields of energy and transport, the creation of joint measures to limit environmental risks, investments in education and training, and support for smes and new technologies. in june, the commission published a report on the added value of macro-regional strategies, in which it examines the work done so far in the baltic sea and danube regions. the report states that the strategies are effective from a strategic point of view, but also from a political point of view. it also stresses the need to improve their implementation and preparation. it is therefore necessary to adapt the strategies at all levels and to allocate sufficient staff to enable their effective implementation, and to align the available resources with the objectives of the strategies. as regards the countries in the carpathian chain, the commission would like to stress that almost all of them are included in the danube region strategy. only poland is not included. the challenges facing the carpathians are also already mentioned in the action plans of this strategy and are taken into account in its implementation. the same is true of the carpathian convention. in view of this, the commission does not see any reason at present to create an eu strategy for the carpathian region. it suggests that the countries of the region should instead use the danube strategy, which already provides a framework for cooperation in 11 priority areas covering a wide range of issues, including, probably, issues related more specifically to the carpathians. poland, which is not directly covered by the danube strategy, may nevertheless benefit from it on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the principle of the open functional approach governing the operation of the strategy. the commission's report on the added value of macro-regional strategies, which was published on 27 june 2013, also highlights this aspect in the chapter 'new strategies'. the commission states that these strategies should be used only in specific cases where the participation of the european union is appropriate. this involvement is already guaranteed by the commission's strong involvement in the danube strategy, which, i repeat, could also cover the carpathian issues, since the member states concerned are also covered by this strategy.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. good cooperation between countries, the ability to identify common problems and opportunities, is the best way to exploit the economic potential of these areas. that's what commissioner ciolos was talking about. commissioner hahn has repeatedly stressed that the macro-regional approach brings benefits, creates new frameworks for cooperation. i think that's why we have a strategy for the baltic sea, a strategy for the danube, a strategy for the alpine area, and it's almost time for a strategy for the carpathians. i am surprised and saddened to hear commissioner ciolos say today that the commission does not see the need to create an additional euroregion, an additional strategy for the carpathians. i thought that no one in this chamber needed to be convinced of the need to create it, because i have emphasised this many times both in the plenary and during the work of the committee on regional development. i think that we, as members representing our regions, our countries, the european union, should listen to the needs of the people in those areas. we should strive to maximise the economic, economic and social potential of our actions. the people of the carpathians, one of the poorest regions in europe, need this. i have spoken to many local government officials, businessmen, and residents about this. they all highlight the benefits that could be measurable from the creation of such a strategy. commissioner, only actions based on building bridges between the individual countries of the union and the union as a whole, based on tools such as the carpathian strategy, will allow for the sustainable development of this part of europe. without such support, the poorer regions will not be able to catch up with western europe. the carpathian strategy is an opportunity for harmonious growth, and i hope that we will finally be able to convince the commissioner and the european commission to take this initiative. finally, i would like to ask the commissioner whether the strategies that are in place have been equipped with special operational programmes and additional special financial resources.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. i'm not going to let you do this. i am very pleased that today, for the first time in the history of this chamber, we can talk about the carpathians, debate about this region, and think about what can be done in the european parliament, in the european commission, to strengthen and support this region more, both in terms of eu funds and programmes relating to economic growth and the equalization of opportunities between the individual regions. i do not deny that this joy was very much disturbed by the commissioner's speech. i'm just disappointed in this performance. you said that all countries except poland are covered by the danube strategy. the strategy for the basin of a major european river and the strategy for the second largest mountain range in europe are two different stories. similarly, when you talk about the baltic strategy, you say that the countries of eastern europe are also covered by it. how does the baltic strategy compare to the carpathian strategy? i just don't understand it. if we proceed from the logic you have presented, that operational programmes are intended to level the playing field and increase competitiveness between regions, and if macro-regional strategies are intended to level the level of prosperity in the european union, then i see no reason why such an operational programme, such a carpathian strategy, should not cover the carpathian region. first, because it is one of the poorest regions in the european union. secondly, it is a region that is facing many problems: migration, lack of tourist infrastructure, unemployment, abandonment of land, and dozens of other problems that are simply degrading the region. when will we talk about the european union's activities if not in the context of this type of action, which is supposed to accelerate the development and increase the competitiveness of a region like the carpathians? i therefore appeal to you, to the european commission, to give the carpathian strategy a serious and substantive look so that it can be presented in the future. i also have something to say to you and to you. there's a very big bottom-up movement in favor of this strategy. the governments of the countries of the carpathian region, the governments of my subcarpathian region, ngos, the academic world, politicians are working very hard on this strategy, preparing for it and appealing for it, asking for it. a good example of this is the concept of the carpathian university, which is currently being created. i therefore ask you, and i ask the commission, not to disappoint these people, not to disappoint their expectations, our desire, this dream, that the carpathian region should be covered by a specific strategy which will be conducive to its development! now it is time for the carpathians and there is no reason why we should not have such a strategy for the carpathians.
madam president! the carpathian region requires a holistic approach. it is certainly true that the european union's macro-regional strategies have been successful in many places. it is therefore worthwhile to be involved in supporting this region as well. i have spent the last few months in the subcarpathian region - it is also a region connected to this area - and i am convinced that many countries will benefit from this if we support the amendments that will allow this entire region to be connected, also from the transport side. that's why my colleagues and i have tabled a draft amendment to be voted on in the november session. this concerns the construction of the via karpatia s19. i hope that we can find a consensus here, a common understanding among many groups, and look at the interests of the whole region, as well as the european union. it's worth doing this kind of joint action.
madam president! i represent the lublin region, which is not covered by the idea of a carpathian macro-region, but i strongly support this concept because i know what it means for the regions of the eastern part of the union, in eastern poland. the cohesion fund does not reduce disparities in less developed regions. our whole strategy is to promote the growth of larger cities, creating more and more disparities within regions. i believe that the idea of a carpathian macro-region, of integration in that space, could also stimulate the economic development of small towns and villages, which suffer greatly and are unable to cope with or keep up with the rest of the regions of the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. the european union must pay its obligations simply keep the agreements. it is in this spirit that the european people's party supports and will want to see the adoption of amending budget no 6 for 2013. it should be noted that every day the european commission signs dozens of contracts for investments that improve the living standards of europeans. every day, thousands of beneficiaries of union programmes receive a part of their costs reimbursed. the whole system is based on the stability of the eu's finances, but it is based above all on trust. we cannot allow that trust and that stability to be shaken. the amending budget voted today means in practice additional contributions for the member states of eur 2.7 billion. but let us be honest: these additional contributions should not be a surprise, this amending budget should not be a surprise either for parliament or for the member states. it has long been known that the eu budget is chronically underfunded, chronically short of money for commitments, that the eu's ever-increasing tasks, ambitions and activities, which require expenditure, cannot be financed by the ever-smaller contributions of the member states. this discrepancy between high ambition and low resources is becoming more and more apparent. in the european parliament, we try to solve the most pressing problems on an ongoing basis in order to keep the eu budget liquid. we will still have to deal with the remaining €4 billion missing from the eu's coffers. i hope we can find an agreement as soon as possible. it must also be made clear that we still do not have an official position from the council on amending budgets nos 8 and 9, and the whole extraordinary procedure which we have to go through here - and we will try and get it adopted today - is due to the fact that the council did not send us its position until monday afternoon. all of this - and the way it has handled it - shows that the eu budget really needs to be reformed in depth.
mr. chairman, please! i voted to approve the 2014 budget. i am pleased that the amendments on pilot projects in africa were supported in the vote. this will allow the allocation of funds for the implementation of specific pilot projects. one of them is to build and strengthen local partnerships to develop the social economy and social enterprises in east africa. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, including the purchase, hire and maintenance of computers and peripherals, and the purchase of equipment and installations for the production of television programmes and programmes. this includes the provision of impartial and independent humanitarian assistance to those most in need. another project is active management of wild grazing land in kenya, uganda and tanzania. the measures taken to implement them will focus on supporting pastoralism, a sector which plays a very important role in the region. the last project is to strengthen veterinary services in developing countries. it's also very important for increasing their food security.
in writing. − we voted today on the draft european parliament resolution on the council's position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. as a member of the socialist and democratic group, i supported the reinstatement of the funds for economic development and job creation that the council had previously cut from the 2014 draft eu budget. the lack of growth cannot be remedied by austerity and cuts in spending, such as those that affect job creation. let us remember that nearly 6 million young europeans are currently unemployed. we therefore proposed that appropriate measures be provided for the following year. an adequate budget should increase solidarity in times of crisis, both among the citizens of the european union and among the member states. i also believe that the additional 50 million euros for palestinian aid, for the middle east refugees that we have discussed, is essential for a peaceful solution to the middle east problems.
in writing. − marine knowledge is one of the cross-cutting instruments of the eu's integrated maritime policy, and is part of the europe 2020 strategy and of poland's maritime policy priorities. the acquisition of marine data, the creation of databases and the improvement of the availability of information meet the needs of businesses, public authorities, the scientific community and society. it will foster increased innovation and competitiveness, which will translate into added value from the wider maritime economy. the text of the green paper 'marine knowledge 2020: from seabed mapping to ocean forecasting' is available on the website of the european commission at http://ec.europa.eu/maritimeaffairs/policy/marine_knowledge_2020/documents/com_2012_473_pl.pdf
mr. chairman, please! the absence of legal conditions for the enforcement of the benefits of the wto and a number of trade agreements is certainly not in the interest of the union's economic policy. i hope that the proposed regulations will improve this situation and thus strengthen the credibility of brussels as a trading partner. i agree with the view that retaliation should be a last resort, but that does not change the fact that such an instrument should be available. i also share the view that trade policy remedies should be extended to the services sector. the commission's involvement in the work of the parliament's foreign trade committee in this area is a good prospect. this will allow for a more detailed discussion of trade disputes or activities of interest to european entrepreneurs.
in writing. − the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) is a european union instrument for the financing of the common fisheries policy and the integrated maritime policy 2014-2020. by bringing the two policies together in a single financial instrument, the commission's proposal aims to simplify the administrative impact of its implementation. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mr cadec, in which the emff is called upon to achieve environmentally sustainable fisheries management, taking account of climate change, and at the same time to develop employment in coastal areas, in particular by supporting investment in young people and their entry into the fishing industry.
in writing. - we voted today on the draft for the european maritime and fisheries fund. this project has caused a lot of controversy, and in the last few weeks i have received many emails and letters asking for the protection of polish interests. fish stocks are a commodity of vital importance for global food security. the fisheries sector and related activities are very often the main, if not the only, source of livelihood for citizens in many european regions. i supported the idea of investing in the modernisation of small fishing vessels that are over 35 years old. one of the conditions for receiving such aid was to reduce the energy consumption of such a vessel by 40%. the same applies to the possibility of replacing the engine in small vessels. the new engine shall have at least 40% less power than the previous one. the baltic fishermen's communities consulted in kołobrzeg highlight the alarming state of cod caused by the industrial fishing of sprat for fodder, which has upset the biological balance in the baltic waters. i therefore particularly support all the provisions concerning the restoration of the resources and the preservation of the biological balance of the baltic sea. financial support is important for the change of fleet, but it is even more important to ensure that there is something to fish.
in writing. − on 10 july, the european parliament's fisheries committee held a preliminary vote on the new subsidy framework, the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). amendment 32b to the emff allows for financial assistance of up to eur 80 000 for the construction of new fishing vessels. such aid makes it possible to continue the vicious cycle of overfishing. in practice, this will mean that more vessels will be coming into the seas and oceans to reach the last of the unfished stocks, causing a drastic decline in their numbers. the last chance to change this is to vote in the european parliament's plenary session. i therefore call on members of the european parliament to oppose such use of public money for the next decade. if this does not happen, there will be no fish in the future, and therefore no fishermen! experience shows that funding for the construction of new vessels contributes to the problem of overfishing. this is why this aid has been phased out since 2004, following the 2002 reform of the common fisheries policy. in a situation where two thirds of the eu's fish stocks are overfished, resulting in annual losses of eur 2.2 billion, opening up the possibility of financing the construction of new vessels would be a huge step backwards and a serious misuse of taxpayers' money.
mr. chairman, please! i hope that, as this year's forum is taking place in warsaw, poland's strategic climate interests will be reflected in the decisions taken at the forum. the only question is, why is the conference being organized on the most important polish national holiday? i am particularly grateful to the visegrad group countries for their commitment to softening the text of the eu declaration for the november conference. the controversial provision calling on the community to increase its carbon dioxide emissions reduction to 30% by next year has been removed. the more difficult it is to accept the demands of some groups, such as the unilateral target of reducing emissions by up to 50% by 2030. given the current economic situation in less prosperous member countries, such rigorous proposals cannot win wide approval.
in writing. − cop 19 is the conference of the parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change. the treaty, which has been ratified by 195 parties, sets out a framework for international cooperation on the issue of climate change on earth. we voted on the resolution which will be the position of the european parliament at cop 19. the draft resolution put to the vote proposed that provisions be included which would lead to a sharp increase in energy prices. the adoption of such legislation is very unfavourable for poland, as it threatens to increase unemployment and energy poverty of families. that's why i voted to reject the resolution. and i also made seven amendments to the bill itself, all of which were designed to prevent the greenhouse gas reduction targets from being raised. i'm pleased to see the majority vote on my three amendments. they concern, inter alia, the withdrawal from the resolution of the 50% emission reduction target for 2030. i also voted against amendment no 12 tabled by the left-wing faction, which called for a total ban on shale gas extraction. the adoption of such an amendment would be contrary to the interest of poland, where shale gas deposits are estimated to be the largest in europe.
in writing. - i am in favour of supporting clean energy sources, preceded by an environmental analysis for shale gas. i see the potential value of unconventional hydrocarbon deposits, including shale gas, which can contribute to the diversification of energy sources, in line with the eu's climate policy guidelines. i support the efforts of the polish government to provide a full and reliable estimate of the location, availability and resources of shale gas deposits in poland, in conjunction with the demands for independent cost-benefit analyses of potential extraction of unconventional hydrocarbons. renewable energy sources should be used on a preferential basis so that poland's energy balance corresponds to the objectives set by the european union. low-carbon fossil fuel-based sources such as shale gas should be included in the energy mix in order to balance market demand and reduce the risk of energy price increases and energy poverty.
in writing. - at the heart of these negotiations is the world's largest energy transition to date. in the past, it would have taken a long time for such a transformation to occur. the first source of energy was firewood, which was used until the 18th century, when it was replaced by coal. in just one century, the rapid pace of technological development has replaced coal as the primary energy source. climate change has forced a shift to renewable energy and increased energy efficiency. they've definitely accelerated evolution, which would have happened over a longer period of time anyway. we have an obvious challenge of capital circulation in our existing energy systems, and time is not our ally. scientific research shows that global greenhouse gas emissions cannot be higher than they are this decade, but must fall rapidly. moreover, if we are to reduce the costs to humanity, the peak of emissions must come soon. extreme weather events around the world provide ample evidence that these costs are rising and that they are particularly painful for the most vulnerable populations.
mr. chairman, please! corruption, organized crime, and money laundering are global pathologies. they are destroying the very fabric of democratic states, and they are a serious problem for societies in developing countries. the elimination of similar threats is essential for the proper functioning of an international organisation such as the european union, which should take concrete measures to that end. a comprehensive legal framework and enhanced judicial cooperation between member states are essential elements for effective crime prevention in the face of the opportunities offered by the free movement of persons and the internet. the creation of a separate european public prosecutor's office would not necessarily be a good solution in my view. the deepening of centralisation is unlikely to improve the mobility and efficiency of national law enforcement agencies, nor will the unconvincing extension of eurojust's powers.
in writing. - the report by mr iacolino, as well as the work of the crim special commission over the past year and a half, has given the problem of organised crime a european dimension at last, and the instruments to be adopted to combat it. the proposal to set up a single european prosecutor's office, which must involve as many member states as possible, is one such step, if the fight against organised crime and money laundering is to be truly effective and robust. the crim commission's final report was intended to set the stage by giving a particular impetus to cooperation between each member state in order to defeat organised crime.
in writing. − the mandate given by the european parliament to the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering (crim) was to analyse and assess the extent of organised crime, corruption and money laundering in terms of their impact on the activities of the european union. it also included an assessment of eu legislation on organised crime and money laundering. the crim final report recalls recommendations on, among other things, the definition of corruption at eu level, the harmonisation of criminal law on money laundering, the abolition of banking secrecy, and the blacklisting of corrupt companies in public procurement. the network of the judicial system in the european union should also be strengthened. organized crime is no longer bound by territorial boundaries. the european union has 3 600 criminal organisations that are taking advantage of the opportunities offered by economic globalisation and new technologies by entering into agreements with criminal groups in other countries. in order to tackle the economic interests of criminal organisations, we should create a uniform and coherent legal framework and strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european and international level.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the report on organised crime, corruption and money laundering: recommendations on action and initiatives to be taken (final report) (2013/2107(ini)). in doing so i am supporting the pursuit of justice over organised crime and cartels that are having a negative impact on our union. this report sets out a consistent and uniform regulatory framework designed to strike at the economic heart of organised crime and strengthen judicial and police cooperation at european and international level. in doing so it provides the european citizen with safety and a mindset of justice. we all know that organised crime costs us millions of euros every year and the implementation of this legislation will cut the costs to the taxpayer significantly. at the same time this legislation will allow for a freer flow of information between authorities in order to catch and prosecute those associated with crime rings. all citizens have the right to live safely in our union and this report furthers our ability to give them this safety.
in writing. - the european union must take up the challenge of responding to crime on a global scale with the same impact. new and sophisticated forms of organised crime, corruption and money laundering require new political commitments at the highest levels and new social paradigms to tackle and combat these crimes. law enforcement and banks must prepare for a long battle against money laundering and terrorist financing, especially in a transit country like poland.
in writing. − it is worth noting that, unfortunately, these types of crime continue to develop in europe. the following figures illustrate this: europol estimates that as many as 3600 transnational criminal organisations are currently active in the european union. these groups are involved in trafficking in human beings and human organs, forced prostitution, and labor camps. this alone generates profits of eur 25 billion per year. the number of forced labourers in the eu exceeds 880 000, of whom 270 000 are victims of sexual exploitation. the illegal trade in cigarettes is worth over eur 10 billion. cybercrime is becoming a plague, causing increasing economic losses, affecting millions of consumers and costing europe an estimated eur 290 billion a year. we cannot effectively eradicate corruption. it is estimated that more than eur 1 billion is paid in bribes in europe each year. so the question is, can we fight this?
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft resolution on the european neighbourhood policy because i agree with the authors that the european parliament must be fully involved in the implementation of the neighbourhood policy and regularly informed about the progress of the reform process in these countries. joint action by all the institutions of the european union to promote development and reform in neighbouring countries is a key element in the drive to improve the situation in the union's neighbourhood and leads to closer political, economic and cultural relations between them. i agree that the union should consistently set demands on the authorities in the partner countries, while at the same time not forgetting to support the development of civil society and ngos in all its aspects. we must remember that integration with the european union is based above all on the sharing of fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights. they can only be implemented if there is real social change in the partner countries. therefore, funding for the neighbourhood policy should be directed not only to support institutional reforms, but also to the citizens of these countries, through support for civil society organisations and associations, educational programmes and international youth exchanges.
in writing. - with regard to the resolution on a european policy for action to strengthen partnership ep position on the 2012 progress reports i would like to draw your attention to the following issues which i have dealt with in the human rights committee: 1. in egypt, it is essential to counter the violence, to ensure a sense of security and to continue to work towards a peaceful solution to the current conflict, with the involvement of all the leading parties. the conclusion of an enhanced free trade agreement with egypt is conditional on respect for human rights and fundamental rights. the conflict in syria is a humanitarian disaster, with more than 90,000 people killed. the situation in syria should be dealt with by the international criminal court. the main challenge is to continue humanitarian assistance to refugees and to continue to work towards a peaceful solution to one of the greatest contemporary crises. 3. numerous human rights observers, including from israel, have reported the problem of the progressive expansion of israeli settlements in palestinian territories and the widespread destruction of palestinian homes and water sources. this makes it increasingly difficult to find a peaceful solution to the conflict. in accordance with the resolution put to the vote, i call on the government of israel to cease all settlement activity and to abandon all planned projects for the construction of new settlements.
in writing. − the european union's neighbourhood policy is geared towards supporting the strengthening of democracy and promoting economic growth. the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument, on the other hand, should support those neighbourhood policy objectives. the various advantages, such as visa facilitation and the prospect of a visa-free regime, should be based on a 'neighbours first' policy. the vienna summit in november will be a significant development milestone for the eastern partnership and an important step in the review of the eu's neighbourhood policy in order to achieve the desired outcome. cooperation in ensuring the security of energy supply is one of the priorities of the eastern partnership and the european neighbourhood policy 2014-2020 and the vienna summit should therefore provide an impetus for closer cooperation in the energy sector as well. there are also territorial disputes between the eastern partnership countries themselves; therefore, the eastern partnership must be linked to and respect the principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity and the right of self-determination of peoples, including the settlement of the nagorno-karabakh conflict. russia is using aggressive fighting tactics to persuade the eu's eastern partners to move closer to the eu and invite them to join its customs union. moscow's pressure has already led armenia to abandon the eu agreement and instead 'voluntarily' opt for the russian customs union. it is important that the eu provides the necessary support to the eastern partnership countries facing similar pressures.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood policy (enp), launched in 2004, is the european union's policy towards neighbouring countries not currently covered by the membership perspective. the legal basis for the functioning of the epc is article 8 of the treaty on european union, which provides that the union shall develop special relations with its neighbouring countries, aiming to establish an area of prosperity and good neighbourliness, based on the values of the union and characterised by close and peaceful relations based on cooperation. the eps currently covers the european union's relations with the 15 neighbouring states and the palestinian authority. the political basis for relations with these countries is the association agreements (with the southern partners) and the partnership and cooperation agreements (with the eastern neighbours, now also replaced by association agreements). the action plans are the central element of the enp and their implementation is supported by the union and co-financed from the budget of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument. russia, whose relations with the eu are based on the implementation of the four space programme, has chosen not to participate in the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. − i thank the rapporteur for presenting the report on the european neighbourhood policy, which takes account of the desire to strengthen the partnership. as you know, all the partner countries are pursuing political, economic and social reforms in different ways, declaring their support for and desire to join the european union. it is gratifying that concrete action plans have been put forward to improve relations with partner countries. this will allow for greater economic integration between the eu and these countries. the partnership policy is primarily about promoting democracy, respect for human rights, combating illegal immigration, and supporting the economic, financial and social sectors. however, mutual needs and different aspirations should not be forgotten, while the good of the policy and the balance between the eu and the partner countries should be taken into account.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! the crisis we are still experiencing has brought about a huge change in the eu labour market. in many member states, the already high unemployment rate has increased sharply. the problems of finding a job that is adequate to their expectations are faced by virtually all social groups, regardless of education, qualifications or age. of course, each member state has different problems and each one requires a different approach. year after year, it is becoming increasingly clear that the european commission recognises this diversity and seeks to take it into account in its recommendations for the european semester. i voted for mrs ferreira's report today because this year's recommendations are particularly important as member states are setting their cohesion policy priorities for 2014-2020. several countries have already introduced important labour market reforms, but much remains to be done, including, but not limited to, making labour markets more resilient to economic downturns, tackling youth and long-term unemployment, improving the skills and competences of european workers and improving mobility. in this context, i am pleased that the european commission has published a communication on the social dimension of economic and monetary union. as the european parliament, we have repeatedly stressed the need to take account of the social costs of tackling the crisis in the european semester.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mrs elisa ferreira's report on the european semester for economic policy coordination because i believe that promoting employment is particularly important in a time of economic crisis in europe. i share the rapporteur's view that the priorities of the member states for the coming year should focus on improving the labour market situation, including increasing the number of permanent jobs, especially for young people. i would also like to draw attention to the problem of the mismatch between education and training systems and the needs of the labour market. as european studies show, in march of this year, we had over two million unfilled jobs in the european union. this number reflects the inability of some education systems to respond to labour market demands and the need for deep reforms and closer cooperation between the education sector and business. i am convinced that when planning reforms, it is worthwhile to draw on the experience of those countries where the youth employment rate is much higher.
in writing. − after the introduction of the euro, the sound public finances were ensured by the stability and growth pact, which set clear rules setting well-known limits on the budget deficit and public debt (3% and 60% respectively). however, the global economic and financial crisis has exposed shortcomings in economic governance and budgetary surveillance at eu level. the european semester for economic policy coordination launched in 2010-2011 and the six package legislative proposals, which strengthened various aspects of the stability and growth pact, have effectively addressed these challenges. however, given the increased interdependence of fiscal policy in the single currency area, there is a clear need for even stronger mechanisms for the euro area. in november 2011, the commission therefore proposed two further regulations to strengthen budgetary surveillance in the euro area.
in writing. − i thank the rapporteur for presenting the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination in 2013. in the light of economic change and the eurozone crisis, problems such as debt, unemployment, particularly among young people, and the decline in the competitiveness of eu countries in world markets are still evident. therefore, the overriding policy objective should be to tackle these issues first and foremost. action should be taken to improve the economic situation and to overcome socioeconomic disparities between member states. reforms and investments are needed, especially at local and regional level. the fight against tax fraud, which has a negative impact on the whole economic system of the eu countries, is also important.
mr. chairman, please! lampedusa is the destination of the largest number of north african migrants. in recent years, thousands of people have died in illegal and extremely dangerous expeditions. this is undoubtedly a major challenge for the community as a whole. i agree that we need to find practical solutions that lead to an effective reduction of these tragic accidents. however, constant monitoring of the external borders and measures to protect them are necessary to combat illegal immigration, trafficking in human beings and smuggling. i am all the more concerned about the recent demands to move the headquarters of the frontex agency from warsaw to sicily. the european border and coast guard is responsible for protecting the entire eu border and a significant part of its tasks is also carried out at the eastern border. i therefore urge you to use your judgment and moderation in making similar proposals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because of the need to improve the patrol, rescue and surveillance of the european union's maritime borders. i fully support the view that frontex and the member states should ensure that assistance to migrants in distress and rescue operations at sea are among the main priorities in the implementation of the recently adopted eurosur regulation. i appreciate the enormous effort made by the people of italy, malta and by representatives of ngos caritas and the red cross in rescuing the migrants. i am pleased that the process of agreeing new binding rules for the takeover of frontex-coordinated operations at sea has already begun. developing effective and coordinated rescue operations at union level and ensuring that these operations are conducted in full compliance with relevant international human rights and refugee laws and standards, as well as with obligations under the law of the sea, is our priority.
in writing. - i supported the resolution on migration flows in the mediterranean, with particular reference to the tragic events off the coast of lampedusa. the increase in the number of migrants risking their lives to reach the european union in overcrowded and dangerous boats is very worrying. in order to prevent accidents such as those that occurred off the coast of lampedusa, we need a common eu strategy based on solidarity, responsibility, including financial responsibility, and the use of the tools available under the union's visa policy (article 25 of the community visa code and article 5 of the schengen borders code). such a strategy should include cooperation and dialogue with countries of origin and transit of migrants, measures to enable asylum seekers to have safe and fair access to the union asylum system and assistance to crisis countries to address the causes of migration. as regards the activities of frontex, it is necessary to include in its activities the assistance to migrants in distress, the conduct of rescue operations at sea and the provision of training to border guards in the relevant union and international law. i also consider that a review of council directive 2002/90/ec, which lays down penalties for facilitating illegal entry and residence, is an important point in this resolution. the provision of assistance to migrants in danger is a humanitarian duty and should not be subject to sanctions.
in writing. − calls for stricter border controls across europe will increase rather than reduce the risk of tragedies like the one near lampedusa, says an immigration expert. this is why the union should reform its asylum policy in the first place. the boat fire on 3 october off the coast of lampedusa, which claimed the lives of some 200 refugees and migrants, has already prompted a loud call from governments and international organisations for urgent action against human trafficking. it's not new. in the last decade, this has been a typical response to this kind of tragedy in the southern reaches of europe. this kind of logic turns everything upside down, because what is in these events is the effect is taken as the cause. after all, it is the tightening of border controls that forces migrants to make dangerous journeys and makes them increasingly dependent on human traffickers in their efforts to cross the border. this migration is mainly driven by the continued demand for cheap labour in agriculture, the service sector and other informal industries. a significant minority of these immigrants are refugees from their violence-ridden home countries. until more legal channels of immigration are established and refugees have access to asylum procedures, most of these people are likely to continue to arrive illegally.
in writing. - if reports that us intelligence has been spying on swift data are confirmed, the eu-us agreement on access to this data could be suspended. reports that the swift network, which mediates transactions between thousands of banks, is being targeted by the us national security agency (nsa), appeared in the press in early september. the german weekly der spiegel reported this, citing documents provided by former nsa contractor edward snowden. eu commissioner malmström told meps from the parliament's civil liberties committee (libe) on tuesday that she had asked us undersecretary of the treasury david cohen in mid-september to clarify the matter, but had not yet received a satisfactory response from the us authorities. we need more information and clarification on this matter.
in writing. - i thank the rapporteur for the resolution on the suspension of the tftp agreement following the surveillance by the us national security agency. there were reports of illegal disclosure of financial payments covered by the tftp. i support actions that aim to ensure the protection of personal data and privacy. it is gratifying that cooperation is being undertaken between eu member states and us experts to clarify this matter. we must not forget the freedom of the individual and his right to privacy. it is therefore imperative to secure and protect data flows so that similar incidents do not occur in the future, which would threaten the security and privacy of eu citizens.
mr. chairman, please! we are ending this week in parliament with two decisions: on the supplement to the 2013 budget and on the 2014 budget. it is a pity that no decision has been taken on the multiannual budget for 2014-2020. unfortunately, parliament has also been opposed to this budget, and the member states and regions are waiting for it. as for the corrective budget, it is necessary. we all see it. it was also confirmed in yesterday's debate, and some club presidents were saying, as chairman daul said, that the bills are on the table and they should simply be paid. it's good that the budget is approved, although a billion less than needed. as my colleague la via (rapporteur) rightly said, we have added a fourth missing wheel, but of a different size. the car will go, but not as fast as we would like. the supplementary budget avoids the slight compromise that the payments for which contracts are signed are not regulated in the union.
in writing. − on thursday 24 october, a resolution on the council position on the draft amending budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 was voted. as the european commission warned earlier this year, there were fears that the eu coffers would withdraw funds for 2013. the european commission asked the european parliament to fill the gap created by the 20% reduction in customs revenue for the eu. the adoption of the amending budget for 2013 is essential for the smooth functioning of the european union. a blockade would delay further action by the european parliament and the taking of further budgetary steps, such as the adoption of the 2014 budget and the adoption of the multiannual financial framework. that's why i voted in favor of the 2013 budget amendment on thursday.
in writing. - i have repeatedly stressed that the approval of the dab no 6 was a temporary solution, a spare wheel for a machine that has difficulty walking. by proceeding with this practice of making commitments without paying them back, the eu will only weaken its budgetary policy to the detriment of young people, families, institutions and businesses which currently benefit from funds from european programmes. that is why we strongly stressed the need for the council to release the necessary resources as soon as possible to meet the 2013 payment commitments, as we had been promised last year, on the sidelines of the budget approval. otherwise, as we have already said on several occasions, we will not give our consent to the adoption of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. - we debated the amending budget number 6 in a very tense environment. president barroso threatened that the european commission would not be able to make payments in the second half of november. but the european council has been playing a very vague game with the european parliament for more than six months, with the general idea of how not to pay for planned expenditure, how to seek savings by cutting and limiting. i am aware that we still need to decide on amending budget no 8, which is the amount of eur 3.9 billion in payments. the guarantee of eur 3.9 billion is a necessary condition for the eur 2.7 billion needed by the commission to be agreed today. i should have voted against the principle, but i voted for amending budget no 6 because i am responsible for the eu's actions.
in writing. − the view presented is consistent with our view of green growth, including instruments that are environmentally friendly while contributing to maintaining production capacity, productivity and employment. this action programme can support the european union on its path towards a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy by 2020. we also agree with other meps that to increase the benefits of eu environmental legislation, its implementation needs to be improved. this should be the main objective of the next environmental action plan. ensuring compliance with the current environmental legislation in force in the european union will bring much more benefits than adding additional instruments and increasing bureaucracy. we also call for a stronger scientific and evidence base for environmental policy. we are therefore pleased that meps want to set 'realistic and achievable targets for resource efficiency'. therefore, the agricultural sector will continue its efforts in areas such as responsible use and protection of water.
in writing. − the head of the organisational unit conducts an exposure assessment of the workers. where the analysis carried out shows that this is necessary, it shall set further exposure limits for them. where a high risk is identified, it is necessary to take action to reduce the level of risk by limiting exposure. in the case of medium risk, this should be considered. regardless of the extent of exposure, the alara (as low as reasonably achievable) principle should always be applied so that, with reasonable consideration of economic and social factors, the number of exposed workers and members of the general public is as low as possible and the doses of ionising radiation received by them are as low as possible. the effectiveness of measures taken to reduce the doses received by workers should be checked.
mr. chairman, please! when we talk about our common foreign policy, we cannot ignore the issue of our complicated relations with russia. the country has recently been unceremoniously torpedoing eu initiatives in the eastern partnership and central asia. moscow's clear reluctance is also evident towards some of the community countries. i am particularly critical of russia's policy of using trade and energy instruments to exert pressure and blackmail in international relations. the russian representative in brussels made a regrettable statement to the press last week. i do not share the argument that we need to strengthen the common defence policy. the vast majority of member states pursue these objectives through the north atlantic alliance. i also see no reason why the union should act as a permanent member of the un security council.
mr. chairman, please! the foreign and security policy report is a typical annual review report. i supported it, but i wanted to emphasise the importance of the neighbourhood policy in the context of the debate. we also discussed this in a separate report. however, in this regard, i would like to highlight in particular the issue of the visa regime for citizens of the eastern partnership countries. the whole case shows that involving citizens in this process will facilitate this difficult process of change. like the issue of selective justice or corruption. new patterns, new contacts give a completely different perspective from citizens who will choose a better way. i think it's necessary to solve the issue of immigration policy. the first decisions were taken 15 years ago at the tampere summit in finland. since then, little has changed, and the example of lampedusa the tragedy unfolding in the mediterranean confirms that this kind of solution to migration policy is necessary.
in writing. − this report is a very important document because it concerns the community's place in the global world. it is also a consequence of the lisbon treaty, and we are still halfway there. we are developing the external action service, setting up branches in brussels and offices around the world. the priorities we have set out show that we are very much concerned with the eu's position in the world, with a focus on relations with key regions such as china, the us and russia, and with hotspots such as syria, afghanistan and western sahara, but also with eu enlargement. i support the amendments on gender balance in the external action service and eu-nato relations. i am aware that there is still a lot to be done, but i am pleased with what has already been done. i am voting in favour of the annual report.
in writing. − computers and networks can be used to support the distributed activities of high-energy physicists in many ways. you can send the data to be analyzed in your home institute instead of developing it at cern. physicists can then work and teach at their home institutes, keeping the environment in touch with the latest research. for many years, the electronic distribution of software and documentation has been standard practice. in the last 10-15 years, email has also become a significant tool for people-to-people contact in our field. less formal (and faster) than a preprint or a letter, and less intrusive than a phone call, it fills a well-defined gap and improves the efficiency and ease of interpersonal communication. cern occupies a vast area served by a large and complex computer network, consisting of some 12 000 devices connected by local computer networks. these include data stations, data centres, some 9 000 personal computers and other specialised equipment. and it's all connected to the rest of the world by a high-throughput network. the external links to cern have a total throughput of around 10 million bits per second and are one of the most mobile internet nodes in europe. so the lab is at the center of an electronic network of people and institutions.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. we are discussing today a very important issue for the future of millions of europeans: the proposal for a single common programme to replace the existing ones in the coming years. the budget allocated to the programme will be significantly increased compared to previous years over eur 14 billion in the seven-year budget. the cumulation of the competences of all the existing programmes into one will reduce the cost of maintaining multiple managing authorities, has the potential to shorten the decision-making process related to the allocation of funds under the programme and streamlines their spending. in view of all these positive aspects, i would like to point out that when we are developing a common programme, we must first of all bear in mind that the new solution will better achieve the strategic objectives we want to achieve than the previous one. i am thinking here of those sectors of the new programme which will be devoted to the education of young people, to creating employment opportunities for young people by upgrading their skills, acquiring new skills and competences, because through these elements of the programme we can realistically compensate for the differences in training of young people in different regions and effectively combat unemployment in this group. we should remember that almost 3 million students in europe have already benefited from the erasmus programme, including almost 130 000 students from poland. thank you very much. thank you.
thank you, mr president, for allowing me to speak. i really appreciate it. i'm not going to let you down. this is one of those programmes - i'm talking about erasmus - that was perhaps the most anticipated, especially by young people, in all of europe. and at the same time, it was one of the most important reports and work of the committee on culture and education, which actually reached a general consensus. and virtually everyone agreed that this is the money that is best invested. my political group very often looks very closely at the money that the european union spends, but it is precisely this type of spending that is one of the best investments. the money invested in young people, in their education, in the opportunity to meet other people, other cultures, other countries, is the best investment in the future of the european union. congratulations to mrs. pack and to all those who support this project.
in writing. the culture and education committee adopted the regulation and budget for the erasmus+ programme for 2014-2020 of €14.8 billion. this is an opportunity for a hundred thousand europeans to gain new scientific experience and to improve their language skills. this budget will offer master's students not only scholarships but also loans. a new system of guarantees and credits will also be created, allowing for the completion of a two-year master's degree at a european university. erasmus has already benefited nearly 3 million students from the european union and eastern partnership countries over the past 12 years, including over 130 000 from poland. our universities have accepted over 35,000 foreign students. the network of the programme includes 4 000 eu universities, including 315 polish universities. poland is one of the countries that makes the best use of the erasmus programme. the tempus and erasmus mundus programmes have been a great success in the eastern partnership countries since their inception. i welcomed the extension of the erasmus+ programme to the eastern partnership countries, which is a continuation of cooperation with third countries. quality education is the foundation of the prosperity and stability of our societies. without a good education system, we will not grow or develop.
in writing. the adoption by the european parliament of a new extended erasmus programme with an increased budget, called erasmus+, is a much-anticipated decision. the new eu erasmus+ programme will have a budget of almost €15 billion and will bring together all eu education and training programmes such as comenius, erasmus, erasmus mundus and leonardo da vinci under one name, as well as supporting sports programmes for the first time. there is no doubt that erasmus+ is the best way to contribute to the europe 2020 strategy, as it serves the education, openness, innovation and entrepreneurship of young people. this is why it is one of the few eu programmes to have increased its budget by 40%, even though the eu budget for 2014-2020 is smaller than the current one (2007-2013). it is hoped that the new programme will reduce the number of job vacancies (around 2 million) that remain unfilled due to a lack of suitably qualified people. increasing the skills of young people is likely to contribute to reducing unemployment not only through increased employment opportunities for erasmus participants, but also through their future entrepreneurial and job-creating activities. the new programme is also a certain inspiration for the direction of change in which we should go in the future. erasmus+ will not solve all the problems and is not a substitute for other youth activities that need to be undertaken at different levels of european and national policy, including regional and local development programmes.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to congratulate mrs. silvia costa on a good report. i am happy to raise my hand in support of its adoption, for it contains some very important things. i would like to highlight three points: firstly, it is aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises, which are known to be healthy market economies and worth investing in. the second point concerns the guarantee of geographical balance in this report. it is very important and very good for people in my part of europe - in poland - that this element is also included in the document you have prepared. and finally, the third point is that this programme also includes countries in the european neighbourhood policy area. it's also important that we give our neighbors, the countries that we work with, these kinds of tools to work with us, especially in the east. not all countries meet the criteria as we would like, but it is through programmes and actions like these that we encourage them to work closely with us. congratulations again on a job well done and i look forward to the vote tomorrow.
i'll start with a quote from the roman philosopher cicero, who said that in wartime, the muses are silent. today, when we're in crisis, the commissioner won more money for culture. i really wanted to congratulate you on this, and so did my colleague sylvia costa. i wanted to say that it is good that we see europe beyond geographical borders, hence the 'creative europe' programme in the neighbourhood policy. it is important to exchange cultural diversity through the culture package. various ngos, cultural communities can submit joint projects. and finally, the great 'media' programme, which will enable us to exchange film experiences, translate films into different languages, digitise cinema, bringing together different views and different european sensibilities. i wanted to congratulate you very much, this is a great challenge for all potential beneficiaries.
madam president! if you look at the map of transport corridors that are going to be built in the next few years in the european union, what is striking is the small number of those that would run through the most eastern regions of the eu, such as the regions of eastern poland, including my podkarpacie region. without transport corridors, without railways, without expressway networks, regions such as the carpathian basin will not develop quickly and only increased accessibility is an opportunity for them. i therefore ask you, i ask the rapporteurs, to reconsider during today's vote whether it is not worth supporting my amendment which includes the via carpatia road in poland called s-19 in the network of main and basic roads of the european union, which will be financed in the coming years from eu funds. ladies and gentlemen! this is a request, but also a great expectation of the inhabitants of regions such as the podkarpatie, the regions of eastern poland, to increase the accessibility of communications, which will undoubtedly accelerate their development.
madam president! the trans-european tnt transport network and the means for this purpose have in recent years largely bypassed poland and the countries of central and eastern europe. this is all the more puzzling as these countries lie de facto in the middle of the continent and constitute a natural corridor linking, for example, the scandinavian countries with the countries of southern europe, and poland is, one might say, the road, the door leading to eastern europe. in this context, i would ask you to consider and support the two amendments which i tabled with the members from lithuania, slovakia, bulgaria and, of course, poland. the first one is numbered 197, the second one is numbered 198. they are helping to create the possibility of a new transport backbone linking the countries of northern europe with the countries of southern europe. this is the via carpathia and its branches. they're the 197th and 198th amendments. i think these amendments are worth supporting.
the ability to move people, goods and services quickly and the availability of transport enhances the economic and competitive attractiveness of regions. it is therefore essential that the countries of the european union, especially those whose development is lagging behind, should be able to implement infrastructure investments as quickly as possible, which are also important transport corridors for the european union. road improvements and better interregional communications have a clear impact on reducing unemployment in these areas and contribute to reducing socioeconomic disparities. that is why i am calling on the members of the european parliament from all political groups to support my amendment - which was supported by 120 members of the european parliament - to integrate the via carpatia road into the basic network along its entire route. i would like to thank them warmly on behalf of myself, the people of my region, the subcarpathian region, and the millions of people for whom this investment is a hope and an opportunity.
in writing. the non-inclusion of the via carpatia route in the trans-european transport network is a decision which is very unfavourable economically not only for the regions through which the link would have to pass, but also for the operators who had economic and above all investment hopes for the eastern regions of the european union. the area through which this link passes in poland represents 32% of the total area of the country, is inhabited by 22% of the population and generates over 16% of gdp. the route runs through seven member states. this decision will have a negative impact on the economic development of the entire eastern wall of the european union by discouraging investment, as one of the necessary conditions for investors is a convenient and modern road infrastructure. in addition, the decision to exclude the 'carpatia' route from the trans-european transport network will lead to the marginalization of the entire area of its route and will slow down the transport accessibility of these areas. it is also important that in poland this link crosses three economic zones. it is therefore worth stressing once again that without good connectivity and dynamic development, road transport in the eastern part of the community will not contribute to economic growth.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the connecting europe facility covers major investments in transport, energy, telecommunications and digitalisation and responds to market needs while maintaining the cross-border dimension and synergies of all three areas. a good example is sustainable transport, which aims to solve the communication gaps between different parts of the eu and to provide better access to transport networks for citizens in different countries. a very important factor that we will get from the cef is the possibility to finance priority programmes that have so far been implemented only at national level. in the european parliament, it has been possible to formulate common european priorities for europe, rather than for its individual member states. the aim is to ensure that all member states are equally covered by the trans-european transport networks. in the individual fields, it should be emphasised that, in transport, the emphasis was on the core networks as the element generating the greatest added value. in addition, it is noteworthy that the original planned budget of eur 2,4 billion was increased three times. however, the challenge will remain to encourage private investors to invest in this sector. i also see as a great success that the baltic-adriatic transport corridor, which runs through poland and silesia itself, has become part of the core network, and is a priority in the european union's transport policy.
in writing. our debate shows how important it is for the development of the union as a whole to ensure that citizens of the member states have access to fast, efficient and safe transport. in today's world, the free movement of people and goods not only improves the community's economic competitiveness, but also has a measurable impact on the quality and standard of living of europeans. the importance of the trans-european transport network as a tool for bridging the gap between the different regions of modern europe cannot be underestimated. modal integration of different modes of transport in regional and cross-border connections. accessibility of transport for disabled and elderly people. the need to continually improve the infrastructure and to use the latest technologies in its construction are just some of the aspects that we must combine harmoniously when planning the trans-european transport network. i therefore call on the commission to take account of the need to build new high-speed rail lines when working on the development of transport corridors linking the different regions of europe. i am referring in particular to the high-speed railway line included in the ten-t network on the warsaw- łódź- poznań and wrocław route with an extension to berlin and prague. its construction will significantly improve the quality of european cross-border connections and will add tangible value to the entire transport system in this part of europe.
tomorrow's vote will close months of difficult negotiations. the ten-t regulation defines what the network should look like for all modes of transport: road, rail, water and air. to speed up the work, in another document to be voted on tomorrow we will indicate how the most important elements of the ten-t core network will be financed. the european parliament has decided to launch a new cef financial instrument 'connecting europe'. tomorrow will be a particularly important day for the lubuskie and lower silesia. i am glad that the political groups have included in the compromise text the content of my amendment no 712, which i tabled with piotr borys. it will make it possible to co-finance the construction of the s3 expressway between nowa sol and the czech town of hradec kralove. it is a priority road for the western part of poland.
on behalf of the ecr group. this document has a good title: europe for the citizens. and although for that reason it would be worthwhile to look at it, sometimes there was something the opposite in this document, i mean, i had the impression while working on it that sometimes some people thought that it should be citizens for the union or for europe. it should be the other way around. we are suffering from a democratic deficit, we are suffering from the fact that citizens are not being taken into account in the political processes of the european union, and it is worth doing everything to increase this influence, to increase citizenship, to control us, politicians, officials, the union, because the union will only survive if it has a social mandate, a democratic mandate, that is, if it is a union, if it is a europe of citizens. to a large extent, tomorrow's vote will be about procedure, not substance. my political group will abstain from this vote.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague hannu takuli for a very good report. and while we can indeed discuss the non-co-decision procedure and the smaller budget, we must be clear that this programme is extremely important for all european citizens, especially in the year of citizenship that is coming to an end. we remember that we have new initiatives such as the citizens' initiative: after the lisbon treaty we have, as it were, dual citizenship, and in addition to national citizenship we also have european citizenship, which gives us additional rights. it is important to integrate europeans, to talk about the common history of europe. it's all part of this very important program. the issue of supporting partnerships between cities there are thousands, tens of thousands of different interesting relationships between people from different parts of europe that are supported by this programme. this is also the whole issue of civil society functioning through ngos. i think it's worth talking about, supporting, especially in this important year of citizenship.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on development. - mr president! - what are you doing? the gpa has a limited number of members, the vast majority of which are developed countries. one of the objectives of the amendment of this agreement is to extend it to new members. in this context, incentives for developing countries have been created, such as the possibility of temporarily applying higher thresholds and gradually adding entities and sectors. the purpose of these incentives is to facilitate opening up to foreign competition. the new document provides for additional protection for developing countries' markets, albeit on a transitional basis. however, no better access to the markets of the other parties to the gpa, i.e. developed countries, was offered to developing countries. i think we cannot be too optimistic about the accession of developing countries to this agreement. they will only do so when the benefits of the decision are proven to outweigh the costs. but it is still worthwhile to liberalize the public procurement market, and this is a positive phenomenon.
today's plenary session is without a doubt historic. we are defining the union's actions not just for the next seven years, but even for the longer term. in the coming days, we will debate and vote on the union's multiannual budget, the reform of cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, and other union policies. however, there is still some uncertainty as to whether these changes, actions and opportunities are in line with the expectations of europeans. we have to admit that we are expanding the intentions, the programmes, but there are no adequate financial resources for these purposes. i know that the phrase 'you can't make more europe with less' is already familiar to us. but i think it's still relevant. i wonder what will happen after the famous 2020? what kind of union will we have? it is said that the financial perspective 2014-2020 is the last such budget. but is the last one this small or this big? because if we want to build strength and further unite europe, then this budget must be bigger, otherwise we should... (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i want to thank all my colleagues in the committee on constitutional affairs who worked on preparing our position on the interinstitutional agreement. we welcome the completion of the negotiations on the multiannual financial framework (mff). everyone in europe has been working for that result to be put in place and for the money to start trickling down to the economies which need it. our job was to pronounce our view on how it was done in institutional terms, and after long deliberations we came to the conclusion that we could say ‘yes’ to the interinstitutional agreement. however, it has to be said that we are not fully satisfied with the way the negotiations were conducted. there were some who did not really recognise the nature of the reform we introduced with the lisbon treaty. so, while saying ‘yes’ in this context, we also want to look to the future and to take the greatest care that parliament’s prerogatives will be taken into account in a much more serious way when we look at the budget in 2016 and carry out the review, and especially when we start working on the next mff. when it comes to these future negotiations, parliament’s prerogatives must be taken much more seriously, especially with regard to agenda setting and decision making. we all know, especially if we look outside the committee on constitutional affairs, that in some cases too many things were pre-cooked and that our prerogatives, as written into the treaty, were not observed in full. however, as i said at the beginning, the time is ripe for a decision and it has been ripe for a number of months. that is why the committee on constitutional affairs has pronounced its views in an unequivocal way, saying ‘yes’, we think that we can go ahead.
mr. chairman, please! the adoption today of the multiannual financial framework will enable member states to start preparing operational programmes and ensure their timely entry into force as from 1 january 2014. and this is crucial for beneficiaries across the european union. the mff is an essential part of the european economic fabric. these and the programmes that make them up will enable the union's economy to improve its competitiveness, which translates into employment and, above all, prosperity in all member states. programmes such as horizon 2020, cosme, erasmus plus and further infrastructure development spending will be a catalyst for economic growth, mobilising additional public and private money. they contribute to the development of the small and medium-sized enterprises sector and are an instrument for the development of education and mobility of young people. the european parliament - as my predecessors have already said - has played a major role in the improvement of the multiannual financial framework. the flexibility and the addition of more than 11 billion for this year, which will reduce the burden for the next seven years, are worth mentioning. but unfortunately, the problem of the backlog of payments has only been postponed, not solved. in the coming years, we will have a serious and substantial debate on how to finance the european union. but i fundamentally disagree with those who are calling for the agreement to be rejected. the crisis in the eu budget would lead to the blocking of the entry into force of eu programmes. and it is this paralysis that would most please those who want to reduce the eu budget. i'm not one of them.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to say that i will support this budget because with this council we can get no better than this, and we can put all our hopes in the 2016 revision. maybe after two years, the council will have a different shape, there will be some elections. what is positive, what is encouraging, is first of all to maintain some consistency in cohesion policy, especially in the 12 new countries that have started their transformation in infrastructure, energy, etc. it will be a chance to continue. secondly, and this is a positive thing, the budget is relatively flexible. and third, there is a certain hope, opportunity and guarantee for the young. i think that something else that has come out of this budgetary debate is something that deserves to be emphasized, namely the firm position of parliament and president schulz and the great negotiating talents of our negotiators, and in my group mr kalfin. ivailo, thank you for this!
when budgeting, the question arises as to how much. in times of crisis and difficulty in many countries, should the budget increase or decrease? it certainly shouldn't be shrinking, and it's happening. because the eu budget cannot be reduced, as i said, because it is investment, capital, development, as was said, and not current. the eu budget is a key instrument for fighting the crisis and creating jobs. in addition to the size of the budget, the objectives and the way in which it is spent, and especially the quality of its use, are important. it is good that it has been made more flexible between years and sections, but more autonomy is needed for the member states and less recommendations from the european commission, because each country has its own specificities and knows how to make the best use of the budget. the powers conferred on the european parliament by the treaty of lisbon did not take their full form during this debate. you could say they were limited. it should also be said that the cap has been reduced, which is detrimental to its competitiveness and profitability in terms of european agriculture. there is a lack of action and solutions, but i also appreciate the success of the dialogue and agreement. i would like to thank the rapporteurs and especially the commissioner for his very active role in the preparation of this budget.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. anyone listening to our debate will notice that some of our colleagues will declare success, albeit moderate, and some will declare disaster. i think it's worth mentioning the uniqueness of these negotiations. firstly, they are already taking place in the atmosphere of the election campaign and the message we take home is, in fact, also relevant to our electoral campaign. second, we're in a time of crisis, and this is the best possible outcome we could have achieved. thirdly, for the first time, the whole system of european institutions has tried to solve the problems of the lisbon treaty. and here both the european parliament, which tried in its own way to compensate for its weak position after the lisbon treaty on mff (because it is a weak position), used all possible measures, but also let us remember that the council, in an absolutely unprecedented way, added such a amount of money to the budget as it had never done in the history of the european union. the situation is absolutely exceptional and i would like to thank all the parties to the negotiations very warmly: both the negotiators, the commissioner and the representatives of the council.
in writing. due to the economic crisis affecting europe, the new multiannual budget of the union will be smaller than the previous financial perspective for the first time in the community's history. after difficult negotiations with the council and the commission, we finally agreed that savings are necessary to ensure europe's financial stability in the years ahead. of course, with a reduced budget, it will be more difficult to develop the eu economy. economic disruption and the irresponsible management of the structural funds in some member states in the past are certainly hindering sustainable development and reducing the effectiveness of new investment. fortunately, we are well aware of the importance of scientific development, innovation and competitiveness today, and we have therefore been able to secure substantial funding for research programmes (horizon 2020), education programmes (erasmus+) and programmes to improve the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme). for us meps, the provisions on support for young europeans were a very important part of the negotiations. the more than five and a half million unemployed young people require immediate action, and a large part of the new budget will be devoted to improving the labour market. the european fund for aid to the most deprived will also guarantee support for the poorest citizens. parliament has taken a strong stand in the negotiations and has won the european-friendly treaties that i support.
in writing. it is a clear success that, in an era of near-universal austerity, growing disputes between member states and the dominance of national interests over the european interest, a compromise on the multiannual budget for 2014-2020 has been negotiated. it's a pity it took so long! for weeks, citizens were uncertain whether the funding essential to the daily life of eu policies would be available in january 2014. the shape of the budget may also be a concern. for the first time in history, it's lower than the previous budget. the european economy is slowly emerging from the crisis, but the economic growth we will achieve this year and next will be rather minimal. this, in turn, has led to rising unemployment, especially among young people. at a time when our global competitors are growing faster and faster, we are cutting back on spending on things like making european companies more competitive. the next few years will determine europe's place in the global economy. it is a pity that, once again, it has not been possible to create a modern budget that would finance the necessary reforms and thus strengthen competitiveness and rebuild economic potential. on the other hand, looking at the mood in europe, it is good that a compromise has been reached. now we have seven years of hard work ahead of us. i hope that we use the funds we have wisely, for the benefit of our citizens and our economy.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, annie jensen and monice hohlmeier. i think they've come through a very difficult road. i also congratulate the european commission and the lithuanian presidency. i think you've been up to the task, and it hasn't been an easy one. many of you have said that 2014 is the first year of the new multiannual financial framework. yes, but i believe that 2014 will also be the first year of efforts and attempts to close the current multiannual financial perspective. the fact that, thanks to the involvement of the european parliament, we have also managed to secure an additional payment of over 11 billion euros for this year is the beginning of a path so that in future years we will be able to pay back the commitments we have at the moment from the current perspective, without any problems for the new financial perspective. so 2014 is very important and special. what i wanted to stress, and what i personally welcome, is that in 2014 there will be a particular focus on programmes related to innovation (the launch of the 'horizon 2020' programme), that there will be a continuing focus on infrastructure development, that there will also be additional support for those activities that promote employment, especially youth employment. this is all very welcome, but i must return to what i said at the beginning: we have a very big challenge ahead of us to ensure that all these dreams, intentions and ambitions are also covered by the willingness of the member states to pay. so we have a big challenge ahead of us and i hope that the good cooperation we have seen now will be strengthened and will allow the commitments that have been made over the seven years that are now coming to an end to be properly closed in 2014.
i would like to congratulate commissioner lewandowski, who negotiated and prepared the multiannual financial framework, and all the rapporteurs who worked on this extremely important document. today is an important day for europe, as we show that financial stability can develop europe in such difficult times of crisis. this budget, although smaller, was prepared in very difficult circumstances, and it gives great hope to the entire cohesion policy regions, to many excluded people - i am thinking of the european social fund, which will be financed under these measures - it gives hope to millions of young people in the erasmus programme. these are the great foundations of european policies that are development-oriented and people-oriented. i think we should work this period well so that beneficiaries are ready to implement an important financial document under the respective policies.
in writing. − after months of negotiations between parliament, the commission and the council, a consensus has finally been reached on the shape of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. it is not a perfect consensus, but it is the best one we could have achieved in the circumstances of the crisis. poland will continue to be the leading european beneficiary for the next seven years, which i consider a success. the multiannual budget provides a balanced and much-needed financial injection for research and innovation, for investments in small and medium-sized enterprises, for students (mainly through the erasmus+ programme) or farmers. as important as this is to me, €6 million will be allocated to the fight against youth unemployment between 2014 and 2020 through the youth employment initiative. in addition, i thought that the budgetary control instrument in the form of the mid-term review or the flexibility of financial management (a mechanism allowing the 'shifting' of unused appropriations between periods and categories of expenditure) was worth supporting. i am therefore pleased that the mff, while not perfect, has finally been adopted and that the planned funds can be put into effect as early as next year.
in writing. − the adoption of the multiannual financial framework, the union's budget for 2014-2020, will allow for the timely entry into force of all programmes and timely financing in all policies, including cohesion and the cap. it also ensures that the eu functions smoothly in the years ahead. this is a difficult prospect, because it was negotiated in the midst of the great economic crisis affecting europe. despite all the difficulties of negotiation, this is a good and ambitious budget, geared towards innovation and development. for the first time, the budget is 3% lower than the end of the financial perspective and in the cap as much as 11% lower. it's going to create a lot of tension during the execution. the budgetary flexibility introduced is to be commended, as it can mitigate the effects of a lower budget.
in writing. − today's adoption of the recommendation on the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 is crucial for the functioning of many programmes, investments and other activities of eu actors. the mff gives us a structured planning of expenditure in line with eu priorities, which has been very difficult to achieve in annual budgets alone. the mff shall ensure long-term consistency and predictability, budgetary discipline and the smooth functioning of annual budgetary cycles. since the mff sets out the amounts that can be allocated to each category of action over many years, it is important that the framework is flexible enough to respond to new circumstances on an ongoing basis. parliament's approval of the mff not only gives certainty as to how the money will be spent from next year, but is also relevant to the problems in the labour market. it provides greater flexibility in terms of payments and commitments, including the possibility to carry forward expenditure in areas such as youth employment, research, erasmus and smes. i welcome the fact that programmes such as cosme, which is an important instrument for supporting smes, are being strengthened to the greatest extent. today's vote ensures that member states can start preparing operational programmes and launching measures without delay. i am pleased that poland is the largest beneficiary of these funds, with almost €106 billion earmarked for our country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that this financial framework will allow my country – poland – and all of europe to prosper in the coming years. in the case of poland, if these funds are well managed, they will continue to provide my countrymen with more and more opportunities to improve their livelihoods. although for the first time in history this budget is smaller than in preceding years, i believe that the european project is a worthy endeavour that has to be kept vibrant and dynamic. a great majority of poles believe this because they see on a daily basis how the eu has changed their lives in a positive way.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agreement on the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020 because i believe that after many months we have managed to reach a responsible compromise that is beneficial for the citizens. i am pleased that, despite the difficult negotiations, the european council has finally fulfilled all the conditions which parliament has been seeking since june. the adoption of an agreement on the union budget for the next seven years is crucial for the development of the union's economy and represents an opportunity to return to a growth path. although the new budget will be smaller in real terms than the previous one, i believe that the key development programmes have been appropriately strengthened. first of all, the final version of the budget reflects the status of cohesion policy as the most pro-development policy of the union. a significant part of the funds will be allocated to the structural funds, including the new 'youth guarantee' project. ensure that this money is used effectively to train young people in the skills sought by the labour market and to stimulate entrepreneurship. i also think it is right to increase the funds and extend the formula of the erasmus+ programme, which has been successfully operating in the union for over 25 years.
in writing. - i supported this budget not because it is good, but because it is the best version of the budget that could be achieved with the present council. the positive aspects of this budget are: the cohesion programme is at a decent level, i.a. poland can receive a sufficient amount to continue the infrastructure programme and support the development of the regions; the budget is flexible, which is also beneficial; the measures to combat youth unemployment have been taken into account; the social fund has been secured; we have covered the 2013 deficit. the compromise procedure has shown the importance of the european parliament as an advocate of the interests of ordinary people. i think my political group has made a great contribution to a constructive solution.
in writing. − parliament adopted the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, which was the result of long negotiations. he has thus demonstrated that he is able to do everything in his power to ensure that the budget is as fair and reasonable as possible, and that it is conducive to european integration. the multiannual financial framework as adopted by parliament is better than the version left after the council summit in february this year. parliament has effectively exercised its budgetary powers to settle the current commitments of the union to beneficiaries (eur 11.2 billion) but also to fight the crisis effectively: by prepaying the funds for the fight against youth unemployment and research and innovation. finally, parliament has acquired the additional right of democratic control over the union's financial planning through the mechanism of mid-term budgetary revision, which allows the carry-over of unused appropriations for subsequent years. parliament has thus taken a step in the right direction, in the interests of the citizens. we have shown that europe is not just about macroeconomic calculations and tightening belts in times of crisis. the europe we fought for in negotiating the new budget is an ambitious, far-reaching and universal project. as a plan for the future negotiations on the next financial framework, we should include everything that we have not been able to achieve this time, namely a larger, fully flexible budget based on own resources. but even his current version is most welcome.
in writing. - i voted with conviction for the budget of the european union for the next seven years. this is the first time that the budget has been lower than the previous one, but we must remember that europe is still in the midst of a financial crisis. the budget provides for expenditure for all eu countries of €690 billion, with poland receiving the largest share of €105 billion. i think this decision is right, because despite the progress poland has made, its average per capita income is still almost 40 percent below the average per capita income in the union. the use of eu funds therefore increases the chances of closing these disparities, and it is not only the size of the eu funds that is crucial, but also their wise use. i expect the european commission, when it analyses the proposals of individual countries, including poland, to give a strong preference to spending money that would create new jobs. the basic problem in europe today is not the construction of more swimming pools or museums, but youth unemployment. the european union budget must therefore be directed more towards the development of new technologies and the support of small and medium-sized enterprises, which account for 75% of new jobs.
in writing. - it's a good report. it concerns the interinstitutional agreement on budgetary matters and sound financial management. we have a six-pack and a two-pack that impose certain requirements and penalties for violating the regulations. this report is to some extent constitutional in nature it goes back to the lisbon treaty, including the role of the european parliament.
in writing. − in march 2013 the commission tabled a request for an additional eur 11.2 billion on the 2013 budget to pay outstanding bills accumulated this year in many policy areas. these bills constitute the eu’s legal obligations stemming from past and current budgetary commitments made under the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework (mff). reacting to the commission’s request, the council proposed a two-tier approach: a first tranche of eur 7.3 billion, followed by a second tranche of eur 3.9 billion at a later stage. while parliament wanted to remedy the shortfall as quickly as possible, in order to avoid the risk of a payment deficit and the rolling-over of unpaid bills into 2014, the member states failed to find agreement among themselves. given the council’s attempts to delay the transfer of the funds, parliament took a firm stand in its july 2013 resolution on the mff. in this resolution, parliament made the payment of eur 3.9 billion (draft amending budget (dab) 8/2013) a prerequisite for approving a deal on the 2014-2020 mff. the adoption of dab 8/2013 by the council on 30 october clearly reflects the success of parliament’s negotiation efforts, but most importantly it is the way forward to the adoption of a new financial framework.
in writing. − the spanish authorities argue that the financial and economic crisis led to a sudden collapse of the economy with an enormous impact in particular on demand for building construction. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the case at hand meets the requirements of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns. in spain, where the annual growth rate of construction activity was higher than the european average, a slowdown in construction activity was anticipated for the medium term. i understand, however, that manufacturers of building materials could not have anticipated the combination of rising imports of construction materials and the extreme slowdown of construction activity as a consequence of the financial crisis.
in writing. − the egf aims to help workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the global trade pattern to find new employment as quickly as possible. the fund, set up by the european union in 2007, will have a budget of up to 500 million per year. the egf may finance actions under an active labour market policy focusing entirely on the provision of assistance to workers made redundant as a result of globalisation, such as job-search assistance, career guidance, personalised training and retraining, including it skills and the certification of experience gained, assistance for supervised dismissals and the promotion of entrepreneurship or self-employment, specific measures limited in time such as job-search allowances, relocation allowances or allowances for persons undertaking training courses and training, motivation measures, in particular for disadvantaged workers or older workers, to enable them to stay on the labour market or to re-enter the labour market. applications for funding shall be submitted by the member states.
in writing. − the eu public procurement market is one of the most liberal and open markets in the world. on the one hand, this gives non-eu companies enormous opportunities to win contracts in the eu, but on the other hand, our european companies, and smes in particular, compete on their home market with companies from all over the world, from markets that remain virtually closed to them. this not only blocks the internationalisation of european companies, but also creates conditions for unhealthy competition. the government procurement agreement defines the parts of the public procurement market open to international competition, but its proper functioning depends, inter alia, on the number of countries that join it. given that the agreement entered into force many years ago, it is necessary to modify it in order to adapt it to the changing trade environment and to make it more attractive to states. i supported the recommendation adopted today as it provides greater clarity and transparency of the rules, also in the context of the current reform of eu public procurement. the eu has gained market opportunities by increasing the number of entities covered by the agreement or by extending the scope of the agreement to goods and services. this guarantees the eu around eur 30 billion in additional market access opportunities and thus greater opportunities for european businesses.
in writing. − the changes proposed in the government procurement agreement bring significant simplifications to the computerization of the procedure. this concerns in particular the introduction of electronic auctions and an electronic database containing tender notices. it is also important that the agreement guarantees the exclusion of the participants in the tendering agreement if they are found guilty of a criminal offence, misdemeanour or breach of professional ethics. the revised agreement also includes favourable conditions for developing countries to participate and a wide range of instruments they can use under the transitional arrangement, such as price preferences or offset commitments. the application of the agreement to countries such as switzerland, china, canada and taiwan allows the european union to increase its market opportunities. the agreement is an important marker for the procedures in the individual member states.
in writing. − the government procurement agreement (gpa), to which some wto members are parties, is a legally binding international agreement on access to public procurement markets. the gpa was unattractive to a large majority of wto members. changes to the existing agreement were also necessary in view of the changes in the general trading environment. the eu's interest in extending the scope of the gpa was driven by the fact that in many countries governments and their controlled agencies are the largest group of buyers of goods of all kinds, from basic goods to high-technology equipment. despite the fact that the eu has an open public procurement market, many countries give preferential treatment to domestic suppliers. the gpa provides european companies with legal certainty in accessing foreign markets. the new rules include a number of new elements. the possibility of using electronic auctions is provided for and the amended qualification rules will ensure that companies found guilty of serious crime, other serious misconduct or breach of professional ethics can be excluded from the procurement procedure. in addition, the revised rules introduce a reference in line with eu public procurement directives to technical specifications, which enables contracting authorities to include environmental considerations in technical specifications. at the same time, the existing statistical reporting obligations have been simplified. i therefore voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. − i welcome the report on the conclusion of the protocol amending the agreement on government procurement. i am hopeful that the negotiated changes and the extension of the current membership will contribute to a better functioning of the public procurement market. it is very important to draw attention to the rules and regulations that will increase the transparency of public procurement rules. this will make it possible to achieve greater effectiveness in the fight against corruption or bribery, especially in third countries not covered by the gpa. i hope that this will also contribute to improving the quality of goods and services offered, as well as promoting high employment standards.
madam president! i think i will be the voice of many who say that erasmus is a programme that allows young people to grow their wings, to believe in their abilities, to make contacts and friendships, to learn foreign languages, to learn about the culture and history of the countries of the european union. thanks to the erasmus programme, many young people have achieved professional and personal success. this programme is particularly important for young people from eastern european countries, as it allows them to experience what their parents were deprived of. by adopting erasmus plus, a great initiative that combines what has been a separate action for different sectors of education, by allowing organisations active in mass sport to benefit from it, by increasing the funds for its operation, we have reasserted the fears of young people who were very concerned that erasmus was coming to an end. i am glad that this is an initiative that unites rather than divides, an initiative that is strongly supported by the majority of meps in this house, and i am glad that i have been able to speak for millions of young people by supporting this initiative.
it's a great and very important day. with the adoption of the budget for the mff, we are sending a very important message to the whole young generation of europeans to want to educate themselves properly and seize opportunities. this will soon mean more than 3 million scholarships for students to exchange their knowledge and study in europe. it's a chance for many of us who can't afford to study abroad. it's also a chance to get student loans for graduate school. this is a great opportunity for european schools that exchange in the comenius programme. it is also an exchange of good practice in vocational training in the leonardo da vinci programme. this is, after all, a new european policy on sport and the exchange of good practice. and finally, the great activity of young people in youth ngos. i think it's an extremely important program and information for all active citizens. let's get ready and use this for next year's competition.
madam president! i voted for the doris pack report on erasmus for all because i believe that the eu's programmes for education, training, youth and sport are one of the european union's greatest achievements. every year, tens of thousands of young people take advantage of the opportunity to travel to another member state to improve their skills, gain valuable academic and professional experience and experience life in another part of the continent. of the changes proposed by the rapporteur in the legislative process, i particularly support two: first, the flexibility of student mobility should be increased and adapted to the new structure of studies under the bologna process. i know from conversations with young people in poland that the current requirements make it very difficult to go to a foreign university during your second year of study. secondly, it is a good idea to introduce the possibility of studying abroad for more than one year in all erasmus programmes. this will facilitate student mobility in the framework of courses jointly run by several european universities. the only thing that raises my doubts is the fact that the erasmus programme is largely focused on higher education. let us remember that other sectors of education are equally important, especially in the face of such massive youth unemployment. it is also important for young entrepreneurs to gain international experience. this is not the case in the european union. i thank the president of the culture committee, doris pack, for 25 years of dedication to the best programme in the european union, erasmus.
in writing. − in 2011, the commission adopted a proposal for a regulation establishing a new multiannual programme for education, training, youth and sport erasmus for all implemented in 2014-2020. all existing programmes and actions in the field of education, as well as the many existing eu programmes in the field of higher education, whether global, regional or bilateral, will be covered by the new title. the total budget proposed by the commission to finance the 'erasmus for all' programme was eur 19.1 billion, an increase of almost 70% over the total budget allocated to these programmes in the 2007-2013 programming period, which would allow the programme to be improved and to reach more people. eur 1,812 billion of the total financial envelope will be transferred from the various eu instruments for external action and consolidated with current international programmes. the commission's emphasis on harmonisation and flexibility and the overall improvement of the structure of the programme, which in its new form will be based on three priority actions for the relevant education sector: educational mobility of individuals, including students, young people, teachers and staff (suggested budget size 65%), cooperation for innovation and good practice (26%), support for policy reform (4%). this is a step in the right direction, but it does not mean that further action to extend the lifelong learning programme will not be necessary in the future.
in writing. − developing greater opportunities in the labour market is now a key priority. the economic crisis has shown how difficult it can be to find employment, especially for young people, so education should be adapted to the changing needs of the labour market. flexibility in training opportunities is needed to make it easy to re-qualify if necessary. thanks to eu scholarships and training, education not only takes on a new dimension but also provides opportunities to develop international competences, which are so important for mobility. the internal market offers europeans a number of new opportunities. traveling within the union, finding a job, living in any member state of your choice, is made easier by knowing the language, culture or customs of the place you are moving to, and gaining this experience already at the stage of, for example, studies, in the framework of scholarship programmes, can be a great asset for the future. i supported the report because the new eu programme 'erasmus for all', which will start in 2014, makes money more efficient, and thus allows more effective use of funds, and increases the budget of the programme. this will enable students, trainees, young people and teachers to improve their skills, develop themselves and increase their chances on the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by mrs pack for several reasons. first of all, i am aware of the enormous success of the erasmus programme, which many consider to be one of the most successful projects of the european union. i can still remember the outrage of young people when they heard that erasmus funding might be cut off. this is the best proof that erasmus is a great achievement of the eu. the second reason is the ambitious goals that the project's creators have set for all of us. achieving high rates of schooling will not be easy, but it is possible. currently, the eu-wide rate of tertiary education for 30-34 year olds is 35.7% and the rate of early school leaving is 12.7%. the project aims to achieve the respective rates of 40% and 10%. another reason why i decided to support the report is to draw attention to something that might seem obvious but seems to be often forgotten, namely the relationship between education and unemployment. as you know, education systems are often not able to keep up with the labour market, and i therefore support the proposals in the project to promote lifelong learning, active citizenship and greater mobility.
madam president! the promotion of cultural, artistic and creative activities must guarantee respect for a specific canon of basic civilization values. promoting europe's cultural and historical heritage can be an excellent tool for strengthening the identity of both europe and the individual member states. it is vital that this magnificent legacy of generations be properly preserved and displayed, especially in the face of increasingly popular interpretations that challenge its validity. the implementation of the programme should take into account the activities of cultural sector organisations, including non-governmental organisations, as well as specialised enterprises and institutions. it will then be a valuable complement to national, regional and local initiatives. the proposal to include partner countries, most of whom are from the same european cultural circle, in the programme is a very good solution.
madam president! i am delighted that the european parliament has adopted the creative europe programme today by a large majority. over the next seven years, this programme will define the eu's actions and, i hope, stimulate new initiatives and investment in the cultural and creative sectors. i am very pleased that both the rapporteur and the committees on the subject of the programme have stated in their opinions that the programme is primarily intended to stimulate economic growth, employment, innovation and to strengthen competitiveness. in the group of smes active in the creative and cultural sectors, it is intended to create mechanisms to support the conduct of activities by facilitating, inter alia, access to financing. by stimulating the economic growth of these sectors, the programme will thus serve the development of european culture and protect our cultural diversity.
madam president! the cultural and historical diversity of the member states is the main strength and core value of european integration, which is perfectly reflected in the motto of the european union united in diversity. in these times of economic and social crisis, it might seem that investing in culture or cinema is an excessive waste of money. well, nothing could be more wrong. the european cultural and creative sectors contribute 4.5% of european gdp and employ almost 4% of europeans, making them an important source of economic growth in europe. the creative europe programme will benefit thousands of people working in the film, television and music industries with almost €2 billion by 2020. the financial guarantee instrument, which will enable smes to access bank loans, which may lead to new jobs in the future, deserves particular attention. the creative europe programme is a response to a constantly changing reality, globalisation and the ubiquitous digitalisation. the means available will enable european art and culture to reach a new and wider audience. this will allow the promotion of the cultural heritage of all member states in europe and beyond. it's worth investing in culture, it's worth voting for.
in writing. - i fully support the initiative 'creative europe' proposed by rapporteur silvia costa. it is a continuation of the culture, media and media mundus programmes. the main objectives of this programme are to safeguard europe's tangible and intangible cultural heritage and to promote cultural and linguistic diversity among the citizens of the union. the cultural and creative sectors are currently dynamic industries that directly influence the development of economic sectors such as tourism, information technology and education. the implementation of the creative europe programme is an opportunity to provide additional financial support to the 8.5 million citizens working in the tv, music, cinema and cultural heritage sectors. i think that programmes like 'creative europe' should be supported, because they promote the diverse culture of our continent, they contribute to economic recovery in the member states, they support innovation and they stimulate the creativity of the citizens of the union.
in writing. − one of the obligations under the charter of fundamental rights of the european union is to respect cultural and linguistic diversity. the creative europe programme is, in my view, an excellent means of meeting this obligation. the union should create an environment conducive to innovation and creativity, in particular by encouraging the development of knowledge-based enterprises and providing financial support to the cultural sector. each member state has developed its own unique cultural heritage. the union's task is not only to preserve this wealth but also to contribute to the flowering of the cultures of the member states, while respecting their cultural, national and linguistic diversity. by supporting and complementing member states' actions to respect cultural and linguistic diversity, the competitiveness of the cultural sector is strengthened and the economy, employment and innovation are stimulated.
in writing. − the cultural and creative sectors contribute 2.6% of european gdp, with a growth trend, and provide 5 million jobs. in the context of the economic crisis and the urgent need to create new jobs in the internal market, these sectors should be given due attention. it is necessary to exploit their full potential by providing appropriate support. i supported the report because the programme will enable institutions and organisations in these sectors to carry out transnational projects, to participate in training and to improve their skills in international cooperation. the creative europe programme will engage millions of citizens in cultural activities. these actions are important not only in terms of growth, competitiveness and job creation, but also in terms of protecting and promoting europe's cultural and linguistic diversity. i also see here a great importance for the silesian province, which is characterized by the diversity resulting from the intersection of different cultural traditions. the programme will not only help to preserve these traditions, but also to promote them widely throughout the european union. the programme's budget will enable over 300 000 artists and cultural professionals from europe to reach audiences in other countries. the distribution of over 1 000 european films will be supported, and over 5 500 books and other literary works will be translated in different countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i share the rapporteurʼs opinion that the protection and promotion of creativity and culture are necessary to strengthen the roots and future of european unity. this unity should be accompanied by our respect for europeʼs internal diversity. i believe that our variety, democracy and peaceful coexistence are what makes us strong. our innovation, intercultural dialogue, and our openness to third countries will make us even greater.
in writing. − the concept of european citizenship has taken on a whole new dimension since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, particularly in the context of citizens' involvement in actions at eu level. the european union should not be seen as something remote, but as our common project, in which we are all involved. the decisions taken by the eu directly affect the lives of all of us. developing a lasting sense of belonging and responsibility, however, requires tools that enable citizens to engage in the creation and development of the european union, and to gain a whole new understanding of it. european citizenship is an important element in strengthening and promoting european integration. by enabling citizens to get involved, they can take a direct part in building a closer europe. the europe for citizens programme supports a wide range of activities and organisations promoting active citizenship and thus supporting citizens' involvement in the european integration process. i supported the report because the new programme will give citizens a better understanding of the union, its history and diversity, and will promote european citizenship more effectively. the programme will also contribute to improving the conditions for the social and democratic engagement of citizens at union level by building their knowledge of the union policy-making process and promoting opportunities for social and intercultural engagement and volunteering at union level.
in writing. − the europe for citizens programme is a very important initiative, as it promotes activities to strengthen citizens' identities. this identity is strengthened not only by knowledge of what citizenship is, but also by creating opportunities to learn about a common heritage, values, roots and history. knowledge of european history, and especially awareness of the tragedy of the totalitarianisms of nazism, fascism and communism, is undoubtedly one of the necessities for the effective integration of citizens. despite its relatively small budget, the programme supports a number of initiatives related to debates on the common past and to understanding the history of integration and the need for the community to function. all the activities, programmes, initiatives and debates have helped to raise citizens' awareness, which in turn has led to increased involvement in community activities.
madam president! the development of european transport, energy and telecommunications networks is the easiest way to achieve the economic integration of the member states. speed is becoming more important, whether it is in moving, delivering goods or performing services. therefore, any additional funds for infrastructure projects directly translate into europe's economic potential. telecommunications are becoming enormously important, integrating and, above all, activating citizens in the most direct way. investing in modern technologies, including broadband internet and digital services such as online administration, is now a top priority. i welcome the fact that individual governments are allowed a certain degree of flexibility in infrastructure-related activities within their own territory. this will allow for more efficient allocation of funds.
the connecting europe facility is an opportunity and a hope to end the infrastructure divide across europe. our great opportunity is to enable high-speed transportation by road, by rail, by connecting seaports, by connecting the missing links of the energy grid and the internet. so i think it's a new tool that can only be strengthened in the decades to come. we are now passing a very important test of how much we can combine the cooperation of often several countries in the same projects, how easy it is to combine countries today when there is a need for forced cooperation. one of the flagship projects, which i am responsible for amending and introducing into the rules, is the section of the s-3 road from nowa soli to hradec kralove, and i hope that in the future this section will provide a good connection between poland and the czech republic, and eventually poland through austria to croatia in rijeka.
in writing. - i supported the report on the cef as it will help to bring about the single european market. this market should have smart, sustainable and fully interconnected transport, energy and digital networks. the additional funding of €50 billion will allow investment in key infrastructure to be targeted, as well as helping to create new jobs and improve europe's competitiveness. the amount of this sum may be a matter of debate, but it is nevertheless an important contribution towards the real integration of the european union. the connecting europe facility will fund projects that fill the missing links in europe's energy, transport and digital fabric, which is crucial to improving the functioning of the eu's internal market. transport is a key element for connecting all the regions of europe, enabling the mobility of people and goods, and thus contributing to the enjoyment of the fundamental freedoms of the treaty. in the context of energy infrastructure, this instrument will contribute to achieving greater independence from the supply of energy to the union. in turn, investment in broadband networks will allow the creation of a european digital service infrastructure and e-government, which will contribute to the development of the local economy and to achieving a higher level of competitiveness.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i strongly believe that concentrating resources on projects in the field of transport, energy, and telecommunications infrastructure will help create integrated european networks that ensure the high-performance of that infrastructure throughout the eu. i believe that this is important in the field of energy in particular. infrastructure development poses several challenges for the eu in the coming years. we must focus on solidarity in the field of security of eu energy supplies and on launching intelligent and better performing energy-saving networks. we have seen how energy can be used as a political tool. this is why the eu must have a strong and unified position in this regard. integrated and efficient infrastructure will help us do so.
in writing. − the connecting europe facility is the main instrument the eu has to finance all those projects that contribute to growth and competitiveness in the transport, energy and communications sectors. i voted in favour because i believe it is essential to provide the public transport engineering sector with the means to implement infrastructure projects, as well as to stimulate research, innovation, technology transfer and development; finally, i believe that we must aim at achieving ambitious goals in the field of transport, energy and telecommunications systems which are sound, efficient and reliable, and which will enable the union to compete with the emerging powers.
in writing. − the connecting europe facility aims to finance investment in transport, energy and telecommunications from the eu budget between 2014 and 2020 in the form of grants and financial instruments that will support projects that are key to infrastructure development. in the transport sector, this will be used mainly to finance the missing elements of the european transport network, in particular cross-border links, and to remove bottlenecks. nine key multimodal transport corridors will be established, covering sustainable transport modes such as rail, inland waterways and 'motorways of the sea', and the integration of ports, airports and logistics platforms will be strengthened. from 2014, up to eur 7 billion will be available to poland under this instrument. moreover, the level of co-financing will increase to 85%, which in practice means that brussels will pay for the polish infrastructure. it is the most important precondition for generating sustainable, balanced and smart growth, not only for all member states but also for all social groups. as the largest beneficiary of these funds, poland will have a unique opportunity to catch up with the leading european economies.
in writing. - the cef should be seen as one of the most important instruments for economic growth in europe. the cef regulation aims to create a new, integrated instrument to support investment in the eu's priority transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure. the cef will benefit all member states by ensuring equal access to the internal market and by accelerating the development of the infrastructure needed by the eu. the mechanism creates 'european added value' by contributing to the construction of railways, airports, ports, maritime transport links, energy networks, gas and oil pipelines, as well as to the construction of intelligent transport systems and high-speed transport networks. the connecting europe initiative also aims to build the missing network elements and remove barriers to long-distance transport, energy and telecommunications flows, which is a priority for poland's development. the proposed investment will contribute to the creation of new jobs. it will also improve the travel and working conditions of millions of union citizens and will have a positive impact on the development of new investments. in today's increasingly competitive world economy, europe cannot afford to delay the development of its own infrastructure networks. joint action at eu level will enable europeans to compete effectively on the world market. i fully support the initiative under discussion.
in writing. - cef, or 'connecting europe', is an idea of the european commission. it is a special instrument which will finance the construction of a pan-european transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure from next year. but by uniting europe, it divided the union. it was about money. the commission proposed that of the €50 billion budget, €10 billion should come from the allocations to individual member states. at the same time, the allocation of the grants would be decided by competitions. the money would go to the country that had the best project.
madam president! for many months i have been pushing for the inclusion of the entire via carpathia roadway in the tnt core network. not only the people of my region of the carpathians, but also the people of the countries through which the road passes, have been waiting for this. i very much regret that my amendments and those of my colleagues have been rejected because the commission's proposal was accepted. and despite my profession, i understand how important this report is, how great an opportunity it opens for the development of european transport networks, creating new jobs, the flow of people, services, goods, and increasing the economic attractiveness of europe. i'm glad that the lublin-rzesz episode is on the basic network, so important for my podkarpatie. that is why i voted in favour of today's report.
transport infrastructure is a key element for the smooth functioning of the european single market. the trans-european rail and road networks are now the absolute basis for the development of the community as a whole. this is particularly true of new member states such as poland, whose infrastructure is often far behind that of the richest european countries. the recent modifications, such as the abandonment of the construction of the małopolska section of the modern railway, are all the more worrying. similar proposals may reflect a denial of the economic development of our eastern regions. i'm in favor of increasing funding for transportation expansion. investments in this sector naturally contribute to economic recovery and to the improvement of the living standards of citizens. the current european infrastructure remains incomplete, also due to limited cooperation between member states.
madam president! the connecting europe programme is one of the elements of a sound and wise investment of european funds. but what is needed is a strategy that is expressed in these transeuropean transport corridors. this is a great opportunity and hope for many regions, degraded regions, to connect north and south, east and west, to connect seaports. one such project is the project to connect the port of szczecin and świnoujście with rijeka in croatia. i think this is a very good strategy, i think that this strategy should also invite - through the connecting europe instruments - governments, who have to invest their own resources in these networks. i think that this will make us even more mobile, but it will also make europe even more competitive.
in writing. − the trans-european transport network (ten-t) is essential for the proper functioning of the common market and for the smooth flow of goods and people within the european union, including in insular, peripheral and hard-to-reach areas. the report supports the european commission's guidelines and envisages the creation of a ten-t two-tier structure. the core transport network, to be completed in 2030, will link the 10 most important transport corridors in the eu, and will be complemented by a comprehensive transport network by 2050. i believe that for the better functioning of the trans-european transport networks we must focus on completing and strengthening cross-border sections which will ensure the interoperability of transport systems between the member states of the union. one of europe's major transport corridor projects, which was planned to connect the baltic countries with the south, including poland, is via carpathia. i regret that this proposal was rejected in today's vote. this example has shown that the implementation of such an important european ten-t route requires a strong and unanimous international commitment from national, local and regional authorities. i believe that there is certainly a need to continue investing and working on improving the trans-european transport network, as it is the key to ensuring better traffic safety for the citizens of the european union and thus contributes to the smooth functioning of the european single market.
in writing. − the trans-european transport network (ten) is an important instrument for achieving growth, economic recovery and job creation by connecting and integrating the union, especially in the field of transport. the union clearly needs modern infrastructure that will facilitate the free movement of people, goods and capital and optimise the capacity of the transport network, while enhancing economic, territorial and social cohesion. tnt also has a positive impact on the competitiveness of the economy. with the schengen area in place and movement within europe easier than ever, the union should ensure that its citizens can travel and transport goods quickly and safely. poland is one of the countries that can benefit from a more efficient transport network to europe. the proposal to add the via carpathia road route to the list of transport corridors, to build a road under the transport priorities of the ten-t programme and to support the construction of the s19 road was a particularly important amendment. unfortunately, we were unable to gather enough votes to pass it.
in writing. − the eu's transport network is essential for the development of the internal market, for mobility and therefore for job creation. a functioning trans-european transport network will allow the free movement of people and goods to be fully realised and will also be a tool for sustainable economic growth and regional cohesion. i supported the report because it deals with issues that are key to the single market and as the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, of which i am a member, rightly pointed out transport infrastructure should be considered not only from the perspective of its local usefulness but above all by pointing out its european added value. the current challenges in implementing the network are delays in the implementation of many projects, difficulties in financing projects or lack of coordination between the different financial instruments, and the new rules address these challenges. the report also rightly points out that the planning process should ensure appropriate consultation and participation of the citizens who are affected by the project. the transport network cannot be considered in isolation from the citizens, since these investments directly concern them. i agree that draft guidelines on the appropriate involvement of local and regional authorities and civil society in network-related projects should be developed and implemented jointly with these parties.
in writing. − the large legislative package on the trans-european transport network (ten-t) is one of the key projects of the european union. it is a fundamental pillar that generates development, employment and growth in the territories of interest. however, the current legislative package, as we know, has encountered some challenges that the new programming will have to overcome. i am referring in particular to the delay in the construction of the ten-t network, the difficulties in financing in a period of crisis and the problems encountered in coordinating the different instruments and the different actors involved. i believe that the package of regulations which has been approved proposes important strategic changes which will be able to solve these problems and give impetus to the construction of important infrastructure projects.
in writing. − europe must build missing links and remove bottlenecks in transport infrastructure, and strive to ensure sustainable transport for future generations. the new, improved union transport policy focuses on creating a coherent network, not on funding isolated projects as before. the core transport network will be built by 2030 and will be the basis for transport within the common market, while a dense network at regional and national level will be established by 2050. efficient transport will not only enable faster travel between our villages, cities and regions, but will also create new jobs. from now on, member states will be able to benefit from 26 billion euros. the only conditions that an infrastructure project must fulfil are that it must be in an advanced planning phase, create added value and be completed within a certain timeframe. the multimodal corridors defined in the connecting europe facility will allow for coordinated infrastructure development. they will help member states to obtain the best possible returns from the planned projects. they will also strengthen the involvement of regional and local authorities in the planning and implementation phase of projects that benefit all citizens.
in writing. − i have lent my support for the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on union guidelines for the development of the trans-european transport network (com(2011)0650/3 – c7-0375/2012 – 2011/0294(cod)). the reason for doing so is that this programme will have a substantive impact on the free movement of goods and persons. an accessible and efficient transport infrastructure is essential for the provision of operative transport services, is fundamental for freedom of movement and is vital for the ability of all regions in the european union to remain competitive within the single european market. a prerequisite for a well-functioning transport system is the presence of smart infrastructure. infrastructure investments have a very long pay-back period and offer advantages if correctly built or conceived for many generations. i think that we can all agree that for the newer member states this programme is very important for the connection with other states which will drastically improve commerce with the west. moreover the improved and new transport system will allow for an increase in safety particularly by way of building new roads.
in writing. − in the 2014-2020 budget, the european union foresees for the first time a dedicated pool of €33 billion at european level for the development of common infrastructure. finally, the priority european corridors for transport, energy and telecommunications were defined. two of the ten corridors are to run through the territory of poland. one from north to south, connecting the baltic states to the adriatic countries, and the other through berlin, poznań and warsaw to the eastern border of poland. but i would like to point out two important problems. first, we must ensure that investment is made in all modes of transport, not just road and rail. it is a serious mistake to underestimate inland transport, the development of which is important for many regions, including my kujawy-pomorskie province. secondly, the european commission should actively verify the detailed infrastructure proposals submitted by individual countries, which, as we know, always requires the approval of the european commission for investments exceeding 50 million euros. the network must connect the main cities in the regions, otherwise the roads and railways will not be used properly.
in writing. −the €12 billion experimental thermonuclear reactor iter will be the gateway to becoming independent from fossil fuels. the cost of building supercomputing centers, and the numbers that come out of it, are nothing compared to the largest scientific investments. the most expensive, of course, is the international space station. in second place is the most expensive science complex ever built directly on earth. iter, or the international thermonuclear experimental reactor, was a joint effort between the united states, the european union, china, india, japan, and russia. the construction cost is estimated to be at least 13 billion euros. the energy efficiency of the reactor is to be 10. it's the first reactor that generates more energy than it consumes. the cost of building the space station was ten times that, and the cost of building the lhc was twice that. however, it should be noted that cern already had a large part of the infrastructure previously used in the lep project. interestingly, iter is being built in cadarache, france, which is only 350 kilometres from cern.
in writing. − i thank the rapporteur for the report on the adoption of the additional research programme for the iter project. as a proponent of energy from natural sources such as coal and shale gas, i believe that the extraction of energy from atomic sources poses a potential threat to the health and life of the public. the nuclear research being carried out is a major financial drain, which at the same time can be used to finance drilling or shale exploration projects. the nationalization of nuclear power creates unnecessary risks and costs. given that the iter project has been found to have fundamental shortcomings and errors in the past, i conclude that the meaning and usefulness of this project should be reconsidered.
in writing. - mr president, the community cannot afford to distance its scientific potential from the world's nuclear powers. the commission has also proposed that the aid be granted to the following undertakings: the high level of scientific achievement which we must maintain translates, for example, into europe's leading position in the field of fusion research. the proposals for a number of simplifications, including administrative ones, are noteworthy, particularly in relation to the framework programmes for scientific research, which parliament has consistently sought. in addition, it is worth noting the specific arrangements that allow for a wider participation of specialised private companies. the participation of the scientific and industrial communities in the individual projects will be balanced through innovative financial instruments and the opening up of research programmes to companies.
in writing. − i thank the rapporteur for the report on the establishment of the instrument for nuclear safety cooperation. as an opponent of nuclear energy, which poses a potential threat to the lives and health of the population, i believe that the highest priority is to ensure maximum safety. historical events, such as the chernobyl nuclear disaster and the fukushima nuclear accident, show the dangers of building nuclear reactors. however, i consider that the overriding objective is to make every effort to ensure a higher level of nuclear safety, to prevent radiation hazards and to detect potential damage in the member states. it is very important to pay attention to the safety measures in third countries, especially when nuclear power plants are built close to the eu border. the key issue is also to focus on balancing financial outlays in order to optimise the costs of the instrument.
in writing. - i thank the rapporteur for the reference to the union's support for the nuclear decommissioning aid programmes in bulgaria, lithuania and slovakia. in view of the high financial costs of decommissioning these centres, it can be seen that the financing of nuclear power plants is disproportionate. first of all, it does not bring any direct benefits, but rather harms both the financial, economic, environmental and social situation of these countries and the energy sector. the treatment and management of radioactive waste, which poses an immediate threat, is also a matter of concern. another argument against this is that such large financial expenditures could be used for safer, cheaper and more beneficial projects. energy from natural resources such as coal, shale gas and natural gas is also undoubtedly more profitable and, above all, less expensive.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what are you doing? i'm not going to let you do this. each time we start a new programming period, we ask ourselves whether the cohesion policy we want to implement in the new period is a kind of repetition of the previous policy, only with different amounts of money, or whether we are dealing with a new quality, with a change of policy, with the introduction of new objectives, but also with new instruments. as rapporteur for the european regional development fund, i would like to confirm that we are dealing with a qualitative change in the case of this fund. we're dealing with a change in policy. firstly, there is a clear distinction between three types of nuts 2 regions or areas: less developed, transitional and more developed (this has been the subject of a serious debate in this house). secondly, therefore, we have a thematic concentration, i.e. a concentration on a certain type of expenditure, a concentration defined differently in these three types of regions. the level of concentration is different in less developed regions, different in transition regions and different in more developed regions. we also have a decision on how to set limits for low-emission control. these limits are not satisfactory to everyone in this room, but they clearly indicate different limits in different types of regions. they also indicate that the issue of reducing low emissions is becoming one of the key policy issues in the next programming period. in the work on the european regional development fund, we also tried to discuss with the european commission and the council (but mainly with the commission, as the author of the first version) the types of investments that should be implemented. the controversy was about investments in infrastructure, in roads, in culture, in tourism, but as a general principle, we agreed that these should be the focus and that money should not be squandered on different types of activities in the present period. so today, in the european regional development fund, we find investments in activities related to digitisation, innovation, development. the european regional development fund today is contradicting what was said in this room a few hours ago. today, we don't have a backlog of development and innovation just because there's no money for research. today, it is in cohesion policy that we have significant amounts for pro-innovation activities, for development investments, but also for the whole sphere of digitisation, for the whole sphere of the digital economy. it is in the european regional development fund that we have today the funds for e-culture, e-governance, e-health and so on. it's worth remembering. another important element of the regional development fund is the new element that has emerged in this programming period, namely the large increase in the importance of the so-called urban dimension both investments in cities, issues of revitalization, environmental protection, housing construction and in particular the energy efficiency of buildings, but also new methods, new instruments such as iti investments, which are linked to integrated territorial development. this new instrument will force a completely different approach in urban areas. in conclusion, i would like to say that after many months of work, working together with the european commission, with the council, we have succeeded in creating a modern tool to meet today's challenges.
deputising for the rapporteur. − madam president, i do not know how much time i have, because i have to start on behalf of joachim zeller, the rapporteur on the european grouping for territorial cooperation (egtc) instrument, who is not here, and i would like to say a few words on his behalf on the result of the negotiations. thanks to a joint effort by our institutions, we have managed to achieve simplification of this instrument and an extension of its scope, and also an increase in legal certainty and in flexibility in the application of the relevant rules. we have reduced the red tape and we are going to make things easier for prospective members of an egtc, and for the egtc as such. the improvement in transparency and clarity with regard to the procedure was a result of the negotiations. we have also made it very clear that this instrument can be used in relation to macro-regional strategies, which are becoming more and more important. moreover, we have added a new element in terms of scope, namely services of general economic interest. also, egtcs will in future have more options with regard to applicable law for employees, especially in complex cross-border situations. this is extremely important. now let me say a few words on the general results of the negotiation. as chair of the committee on regional development (regi), i chaired those trialogues, and i would like to say that, from the very beginning, as of 2009, the regi committee got involved in working together with our european institutions in preparing the future cohesion policy. i mention this because, thanks to our cooperation, to which both the commission and the council were very open, it was possible to take account in the original commission proposal of many ideas raised by parliament during this pre-legislative work. this in turn allowed us in the course of the trialogues to support many of the main lines of the commission proposal. this approach was particularly important with regard to the general or common provision regulation. from day one, we have been fierce defenders of this miracle that has occurred in cohesion policy, which now has a common regulatory umbrella for all the funds. it will boost synergies and it will also permit simplification in terms of management – something of practical importance because it will allow those who implement the policy to focus on the impact of the programmes and projects and to worry less about administrative technicalities. we have also put a lot of energy into developing and supporting new solutions, strengthening the impact of this policy on the ground. a lot of that energy was directed at the question of ex ante conditionality, which, i am sure, will pave the way to better and more targeted use of the funds. importantly, however – and i would like to underline this – we strongly opposed the tendency to make cohesion policy responsible for checking the implementation of virtually all european laws. ex ante conditionality will have to be truly linked to cohesion policy. we also insisted on strengthening the strategic nature of policy programming, and the good news is the common strategic framework, which will provide a single source of guidance for the five funds, facilitating at the same time an integrated approach (something that is most important) and ensuring consistency, coordination and synergies among the funds and also between the funds and other union policies and instruments. it goes without saying that it was of the utmost importance for all of us to ensure that sufficient investment is targeted at youth employment, at labour mobility, at knowledge, at social inclusion and at combating poverty. the member states will have the final say in deciding how much of the european funding they will need to complement a broad spectrum of national policies in this context, but we decided that it will be binding on member states to increase the share dedicated to the social fund, depending on their domestic situation. i understand that i have still two minutes at the end.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. - madam president! - what are you doing? the enormous work, the success of the mediation and the new solutions in the framework of the multiannual financial framework cannot hide the fact that this budget is reduced compared to the previous period. this is happening at a time when, after five years of crisis, investment opportunities in many countries are limited and unemployment rates in some regions of europe are very high. one of the main instruments of our work is the european social fund. and i have to say that this is very important, especially in countries that are having the most difficult time in transition. in my draft opinion on the fund in the femm committee, i supported a minimum allocation of 25% of the total cohesion policy budget. that is why i regret that the cuts in the policy will also affect the social fund. in short, the compromise on the mff has been paid for by a measurable loss, the consequences of which will be felt by the young and the unemployed. this is very important.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. we are talking about a key issue for the countries of the new union, that is, for the 12 member states, including my country, poland, but also very important for the poorer member states of the old union. we are talking about a realised opportunity, such as the structural funds, for example the cohesion fund, which is particularly needed in times of crisis. the fact is that this money is certain, it can attract and it does attract investors. i would also like to emphasize my reservation about the macroeconomic sanctions. i fear that this could lead to a deepening of the contrast between rich and poor countries, including my own country, and i am warning against it. i am also afraid that the principle of solidarity, which is at the heart of the european union, is being undermined.
madam president! the revision of cohesion policy brings many new positive elements that will better ensure greater involvement of local and regional authorities in the design and implementation of projects, enable the use of financial instruments and ensure support for smart and clean development, research and innovation and action for the poorest part of european society. the compromise we've worked out is worthy of approval. although we oppose such clauses as macroeconomic conditionality, we have nevertheless managed to achieve a high level of involvement of parliament and the regions in decision-making. i also welcome the negotiated 23% level of compulsory expenditure for the european social fund. these measures will also allow for the necessary investment in human capital, namely, above all, in job creation. now we need to be very efficient in implementing these rules so that the beneficiaries can benefit from them as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the challenges facing europe are to increase competitiveness, invest in an innovative economy, increase growth, combat high unemployment and combat poverty and social exclusion. as co-rapporteur on the european social fund, i have repeatedly analysed the available statistics on unemployment in europe, which show that the situation is getting worse year by year, despite the many actions, programmes and funds available. at the same time, many employers have great difficulty recruiting people with the right qualifications. i wanted to stress that the european social fund will not guarantee us new jobs, because it is a tool that can help create them, provided that its resources are used wisely, that we do not waste millions of euros on programmes that benefit only companies that provide training and not the unemployed, that we reduce bureaucracy, simplify the rules, as all the beneficiaries have called for. it is important that the use of the european social fund be based on the needs of the labour market, the expectations of employers, the unemployed, the excluded. we must remember that entrepreneurs create jobs, which is why it is so important to create the conditions for entrepreneurship, and in particular to support small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employment. we must not forget that financial support should be directed to regions and individuals, to where there are real needs and the ability to use them well. and it is on our wisdom, and on the people who will implement the funds, that the success of europe and its people will depend.
mr. chairman, please! the european social fund has for years served to increase employment and promote economic and social cohesion in the member states. as the oldest and most effective financial instrument of the european union, it has been permanently added to the list of structural funds. i think it is very important that when we work on the financial solutions for the coming years, we should first of all take into account their impact on stimulating employment, especially youth employment, activating young people, providing them with opportunities to improve their skills, equalising educational levels and reducing the differences in living conditions between member states and regions. we must also not forget the fight against all forms of discrimination, poverty and social exclusion. these activities are one of the main objectives of the european social fund. with this in mind, it is therefore important that the fund, at all levels at which it is implemented - whether european, national, local or regional - should serve the broad social inclusion of europeans. and fighting youth unemployment should be a priority for all of us.
mr. chairman, please! the european union's principle of solidarity is undoubtedly based on the structural funds, which help the poorer regions in particular to overcome their difficulties. but they won't be the only ones to benefit from this new perspective. the countries and regions that apply for aid today will themselves benefit directly or indirectly from it. let us not forget that the european funds will be one of the european union's biggest investment instruments over the next seven years. their effective use will serve the economic development of the european union as a whole. it is good that the commission, drawing on its experience, has proposed changes, such as simplification of administrative procedures or increased measurability of the indicators of change, which can make the use of the funds more effective. a european social fund lump sum may also be a useful new instrument for micro-projects in local areas where results are easy to achieve and measure, and the added value of these projects is to build and develop the civic-minded, community-integrated initiatives that are so needed today in an era of growing pessimism about the european union. i thank parliament's negotiators for their diligent and responsible work.
we all want to invest in innovative development based on new technologies and scientific research, but there are many regions that need to complete construction or modernise their infrastructure in order to create the conditions for the development of an innovative, competitive economy, for entrepreneurship, including small and medium-sized enterprises. i would like cohesion policy to focus more on energy efficiency, renewable energy and the creation of infrastructure for common energy security. another problem is water management in a broad sense. here too, cohesion policy investments are needed. it is good that we support the financing of guarantee funds, guarantees, insurance - these are modern financial instruments for development. achieving territorial cohesion requires an increased cohesion policy focus on rural areas. i welcome the proposal to simplify, reduce red tape and have common rules for all funds. and in closing, i'd like to acknowledge and congratulate all of you who have done a great job.
mr. chairman, please! commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the european social fund has a key role to play in the process of mitigating the effects of the crisis. however, i believe that returning to the discussion on increasing the esf contribution to 25% and moving away from the compromise of 23.1% reached in june may also have negative consequences. in many countries, the programming process is very advanced and a change in allocations would require the modification of operational programmes and delay the preparation of partnership agreements. the transition to the next programming period, the new implementation system and, in particular, the difficult situation on the labour market, are already posing a very serious challenge to the harmonious and effective implementation of the esf, and i therefore believe that we must decisively eliminate any risk of delays in the award of this fund at national level.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to leave. i would like to remind everyone that we started negotiations when some member states were opposed to cohesion policy and some members of this house were opposed to it. that was the beginning. it was also necessary to establish special coalitions of friends of cohesion to convince each other that this policy made sense. today we have come a long way, and we are effectively closing the negotiations with a great deal of success, because cohesion policy is well established. it's true that as a result of our debate, some of us are still stuck in our positions from the beginning of the debate, and we're not changing our minds, but the debate shows these differences. i would say that we should obviously be pleased with the way we have gone from denying to clearly affirming cohesion policy. i would like to begin by thanking the commissioner, the whole negotiating team of the commission, the council representatives and, in particular, the people with whom i have worked in parliament, namely the counter-rapporteurs from the various political groups, with whom we have constantly had differences of opinion, but who have always managed to reach a compromise.
deputising for the rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to mention two issues – firstly my reaction to commissioner andor’s introductory statement and, secondly, macroeconomic conditionality. i was surprised to hear the commissioner, at this stage of the legislative process, actually encouraging the house to reject the agreement that we have reached after such a difficult negotiation process and to go for the second reading because of 23.1. that was quite an unprecedented statement. i was extremely grateful that he did not repeat it in his closing remarks. on macroeconomic conditionality, there has been a very strong intervention of the parliament in the process of macroeconomic conditionality, as presented in the commission’s initial draft. we even changed the name. it is no longer called ‘macroeconomic conditionality’ but ‘measures linking the european structural and investment funds with the sound economic governance of the european union’. however, this is not only about the change of name, but also about the changed nature of this conditionality. for the first time in the legislative framework for cohesion policy we have an explicit link between cohesion policy and the macroeconomic governance of the european union. for the first time we have recognition by the european council – which is amazing – by the european commission – which is less amazing – and by the european parliament – which is also amazing – that this is the investment policy of the european union. we must remember that this is part of, and thanks to, the fact that this type of thinking has been presented. secondly, there is the corrective part, which we, as the european parliament, did not like. we have intervened very deeply and very strongly and have introduced all the measures which minister leškevičius has mentioned, namely the cap, which includes all the socioeconomic factors but also, for the first time, the genuine involvement of the european parliament. the whole process of potentially eventually introducing the sanctions related to the structural funds will be with the genuine involvement of the european parliament right from the very beginning when the commission suspects that the risk may be such as to enter into the suspension of the funding procedure. the european parliament will be involved. so tomorrow we must really understand that our responsibility today is to give us – the european citizens – this policy that can help us get out of the crisis in a smart and wise manner. i am sure that we will prove this tomorrow. i would like to join my colleagues in saying that we should vote in favour tomorrow.
in writing. – the purpose of cohesion policy is to reduce disparities between the eu’s various regions by promoting economic growth, job creation and competitiveness. it is therefore considered one of the eu’s most important pillars, representing one third, or eur 325 billion, of the next multiannual budget. the agreement on this dossier was reached after 90 trialogue meetings, and over one year of negotiations. the final compromise is not to the full satisfaction of parliament. however, it includes many of our political priorities. on macroeconomic conditionality, the parliament gained a right of scrutiny, in structured dialogue with the commission, over decision-making procedures affecting the suspension of funding. suspensions will be adjusted in line with social and economic circumstances in the member states concerned. parliament also succeeded in raising the pre-financing rates (i.e. allowing support to beneficiaries immediately from programme adoption from 2.5% in 2014-16 to 3% in 2020-23) and co-financing rates (from 50% to 85% for the outermost regions and cyprus) and in limiting the performance reserve (to 6% instead of 7%). while the deal is not perfect, the finale compromise is an important step towards a more effective, better and more targeted use of the policy in the eu’s next financial framework.
the question asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i wanted to ask mr agnew if he had addressed the most important point in the directive we are discussing today. this isn't about forcing anyone, this is about putting procedures in place. there is no penalty for not reaching the goal, but there is a possible penalty for not following the procedures. do you think the issue is that a woman with the same qualifications as a man is preferred in a situation where most men work in the company? do you think it's wrong for a man with the same qualifications as a woman to be preferred in a company where most of the employees are women? this is a matter of both sexes, not one.
(...) whether women should have preferential positions in companies. this is a debate about whether people who have the same qualifications should be treated equally. and that's the most important thing. i think it is a mistake to talk today about this being a directive to promote women on company boards. in a few moments, it could be a directive to promote men in companies. please remember that. i am most pleased that we will not punish for not reaching employment levels, but rather for not pursuing a certain goal. this is important. we're supposed to be equal before the law, we're supposed to be equal before each other. sometimes it's underestimating women, sometimes it's underestimating men. this directive shows equally - and i am grateful to the commissioner for this - that we are going to give priority to qualifications, and that is the most important thing. and women on company boards will be absolutely a value-add.
mr. chairman, please! this report is another step towards genuine equality between women and men in the labour market. since the promotion of the idea of a wider participation of women in the top positions of commercial companies has not produced satisfactory results, the introduction of certain obligations by means of a normative act seems necessary. and we know from studies by experts today that companies where women have more influence in business decision-making have better economic performance. the proposed directive requires listed companies with more than 250 employees and an annual turnover of more than eur 50 million to introduce transparent recruitment procedures in order to increase the share of non-executive directors of the underrepresented sex to 40% by 2020. however, it should be clearly stated that this is not a question of favouring women. the idea behind the proposed changes is to introduce arrangements whereby objective criteria are applied and where two persons of different sexes equally meet the requirements, the post would be filled by the person of the under-represented sex. the penalties to be imposed by the member states will not relate to the failure to achieve specific results expressed as a percentage, but will apply to situations where companies do not introduce objective criteria and transparent qualification procedures.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. today we're talking about really, you could say, 21st century technology. the satellite navigation system we want to use and are already using in europe is one of the most advanced systems that will give us the possibility of absolutely good navigation and is not used only - as we commonly believe - for driving short distances, but is used primarily in aviation, on ships, in digital tachographs, also in banks for courier shipments, in geodetic work, and even by athletes. so let's emphasize that this is a system that is necessary so that we can say that we're brought into the 21st century. egnos is an even more technologically advanced system, used in civil aviation and the transport industry, already at this moment. both systems are widely used by the military, so there's one thing to say: we've actually joined the best of them as europe. the ones who really know how to use the technology 100%. these systems, of course, require the expansion of infrastructure in europe, require the construction of more ground stations and the elimination of the islands that we have in europe. this is very important for us to cover all of europe with the coverage that is, as it were, the technology of the 21st century.
in writing. navigation systems are not new to the world. they have a lot of uses. from warfare to automotive navigation. around the globe, there are hundreds of navigation satellites belonging to the gps, glonass, and beidou networks on which we now depend. the european galileo system has been in the works for many years. the report states that the programme is currently in the final stages of definition, development and validation, and that work is already underway to start the operational phase. i believe that the plans will be successful, because i believe that such a system can bring many benefits to europe. the aforementioned independence from other systems, the absence of concerns about disruption to other navigation systems and the improvement in competitiveness through galileo and egnos are worth an estimated €7 billion in the near financial perspective. i'm confident that the potential benefits in the future will make this investment worthwhile. importantly, galileo is managed by civilian institutions, which is further proof that the european union is an area that provides peace and security to its citizens. i am in favour of the report. it provides flexibility and a clear division of competences. i hope that in a few years' time eu citizens will have no reason to complain.
madam president! the compromise reached on the common agricultural policy should be welcomed, but let us be clear that we are not the ones who are making the big changes. while we have simplified the system somewhat, farmers will be able to benefit from multiannual grant applications, the smallest farmers will be able to access a simplified direct payment system, the reduction in the level of controls will result in a reduction in the administrative burden, and farmers will be able to count on additional support in the form of a strengthened farm advisory system. we are introducing environmental commitments and at the same time mandatory premiums for young farmers. i also welcome the measures available under the rural development programme. the cap as we have arrived at it will be a kind of toolbox from which countries can choose the best and apply them. but it also means that we do not have a single common agricultural policy for all farmers. in the case of poland, the budget for the entire agricultural policy will be reduced, in particular the second pillar of the common agricultural policy has been cut by as much as 18% compared to the current financial perspective. the more responsibility the local authorities, the state authorities, have for the good use of these funds. i would like to appeal not only to the polish minister of agriculture, to the polish authorities, but to all the other member states not to shift funds from the second pillar to the first pillar in order to take care of rural development. at the same time, i would like to emphasise that we social democrats have been working since the very beginning to level the level of direct subsidies across the european union. however, this objective can only be achieved in the future. the greatest opportunity to improve the well-being of europe's rural population lies in multidimensional and sustainable rural development ranging from increasing the competitiveness of agricultural and processing production, improving agricultural markets, to developing non-agricultural activities and enhancing the overall economic prospects of rural areas.
madam president! we are adopting today a common agricultural policy of poverty and discrimination. the policy of poverty, because there is less money, whereas there should be more, because global competition is becoming more difficult and there are threats to europe's food security on the horizon. the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the ecr group has consistently advocated full equalization of direct subsidies throughout europe, throughout the european union, but unfortunately our amendment in this respect did not win a majority. poland has lost the most under the new cap will get 4 billion less than under the previous perspective. and i'll show you, you can see it exactly on this graph, how much less money polish farmers get. we're worried that we're going to have seven years of skinny living to do. parliament, and i thank my colleagues for this, wanted to give polish farmers more, as much as 8 billion. unfortunately, this good proposal did not receive support in the council, and i have a complaint about that to the polish government as well. the worst part is, we have less money to develop. european agriculture faces seven years of stagnation and struggle for survival. i fear that many farmers, especially in the poorer parts of europe, may not survive these seven years. we should start thinking today about the post-2020 cap, so that it can meet the challenges of the modern world.
the reform of the cap is inextricably linked to the establishment of the multiannual financial framework. the reduced budget for 2014-2020 will have a significant impact on the reduction in agricultural spending of around 11%, amounting to over €40 billion. in the reform of the cap, we forgot that the union has been enlarged, and that this has made it more diverse, that we have obligations towards new member states where the level of support is low. what we have done in terms of leveling the level of subsidies is a certain minimum which does not create a level playing field for competitiveness and fairness. the second pillar, which is to modernise agriculture, develop rural areas, create new jobs, has clearly been badly treated. yesterday there was a discussion on the reform of cohesion policy. i was the only one who mentioned the expectations of rural areas in relation to cohesion policy. in the field of agricultural market organisation, we have significantly reduced intervention on the markets. i believe that agriculture is so dependent on climate that the necessary intervention measures should have been left to the developers. support for producer groups, producer organisations is essential to strengthen the position of farmers in the food chain. the emergency clause requires further work. for the first time, the problems of small farms were clearly identified, their importance confirmed and a substantial simplification of support for these farms proposed. however, it should be clearly stated that this level of support for these farms is insufficient. i would like to stress the important socialization of the cap reform process. a number of discussions and meetings with farmers, consumers and ngos took place at the level of the european commission and parliament. our committee on agriculture has done a great deal to make this reform more farmer-friendly. it has simplified it in part, for example by limiting the number of smaller holdings. this reform was necessary, we made changes that could be made in the current situation ... (the chairman turned off the speaker's microphone.)
mr. chairman, please! the main disadvantage of the reform of the agricultural policy is the lack of objective criteria for determining the amount of direct payments. as commissioner cioloş said in the previous debate, subsidies also have a non-treaty function of balancing financial flows between net payers and the eu budget. unfortunately, this is true, but it strikes at the fundamental principle of a level playing field in the single market and has nothing to do with fairness and integrity in such an important area of policy. the positive aspect of the reform is certainly the high degree of flexibility and even variety in the choices made, which is due to the wide diversity of agriculture in the european union. i am also pleased to see the introduction of the definition of an active farmer and more support for young farmers. it was also the right decision to postpone the entry into force of the new rules for the unw, i.e. farmers who work in difficult economic conditions.
on behalf of the ecr group. the number one task of any european commission today is to review eu legislation in terms of competitiveness. president barroso's announcements are quite promising in this respect. it is also the european union today that is responsible for stifling the activity, the economic vitality of the europeans. reducing the eu's requirements in the areas of administrative and information obligations for companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, is a pressing need today. the liberalisation of the services market and the digital market alone could bring an additional 6% of gdp for the union as a whole. we need less regulation today. any new regulation would have to pass the competitiveness test proposed by the uk government and six other member states. we don't need new directives on shale gas, new requirements on environmental impact. we need predictability for investors in the energy sector. the policy of high energy prices in europe, particularly in the context of the free trade agreement with the united states, must be abandoned as a matter of urgency. the single market is the only anti-crisis instrument we have today. it's time to make it happen.
in writing. i am very hopeful that, following the success of yesterday's adoption of the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020, we will be able to launch programmes to meet the challenges ahead as early as next year. i am pleased that the fight against youth unemployment, the increase in employment in the sme sector and other measures to promote growth and investment have been highlighted. given the importance of smes for the labour market, i hope that the communication on the results of the refit programme, published in october, will enable the commission to remove administrative barriers and simplify procedures in order to create new, sustainable jobs.
in writing. − the adoption of the 2014 budget was crucial for the timely launch of all programmes and the launch of cohesion policy or cap funding. it is important that despite the difficulties that arose during the negotiations, the procedure did not turn into a dispute like the one we faced in 2012. the delays resulting from the budgetary interim measures would be all the more acute as this is the first budget of the new financial perspective. it is of particular importance that the member states be assured that the implementation of the mff covers the 2014 budget from the outset. it also facilitates the implementation of all the member states' intentions.
madam president! satellite radio navigation is becoming a tool of universal use. in addition to industry, not only drivers but pedestrians, for example, now regularly use this technological achievement. its systematic modernisation is making a significant contribution to improving the living conditions of all citizens. combined with the achievements of the internet industry, they are given a fundamental source of information about the area in which they are located. it is important that brussels is working on measurement systems with a high degree of accuracy and reliability. this will directly translate into increased efficiency in a number of sectors of the economy, scientific advancement and ease of everyday life. i support the galileo programme as the first global civil navigation system. it will make europe independent of both gps and, above all, of the russian glonass system.
in writing. − the agreement between the european union and the russian federation on drug precursors is a very important step in the attempt to tackle the problem of drug dependence. for both the european union countries and the russian federation, the problem of drug addiction is a difficult one to combat. the agreement is not only a tool for controlling the trade in drug precursors but also an expression of the implementation of an overall strategy on the approach to the production and consumption of drugs. it should also be remembered that the fight against drug crime is not only about fighting illegal substances of marginal production, but also about strict control of the very legal substances used to produce them. the agreement will certainly contribute to this objective also due to the fact that russia is a destination country for precursors. the mutual benefits of the provisions of the agreement and the mutual trust which the parties have in each other are an additional guarantee for the implementation of the provisions of the agreement.
mr. chairman, please! the structural funds are the european union's most effective mechanisms for balancing opportunities, stimulating growth and facilitating job creation. in countries like poland, they are a fundamental element of development. i hope that a single set of rules for each fund will make it easier in the years ahead to allocate funds, to implement projects and to use them for specific purposes. the good news is that the introduction of rules limiting the suspension of funds to specific cases such as unemployment, recession or social exclusion means that there is more room for manoeuvre in a situation of persistent crisis. the role of the european parliament will thus also be further enhanced. a clear strategic framework, including a systematisation of priorities, will allow for targeting and facilitate cooperation with individual governments, while maintaining a degree of flexibility.
in writing. − the better use of eu funds in times of economic crisis has become a priority. it is not always possible to allocate a higher amount of funds to certain activities, and changing economic and social circumstances also change the challenges. it has therefore become crucial to look for ways to make a greater impact with existing measures. the simplification of policy implementation is to become one of the main features of the 2014-2020 programme. experience shows that the diversity and fragmentation of rules governing spending programmes create an unnecessarily complex system. this not only places a burden on the administration and beneficiaries, but also discourages them from using the programmes. the full potential of the european funds is thus not being used. i support measures that make it easier to obtain funds and thus to use them better, but we cannot introduce rules that are detrimental to less prosperous countries. cohesion policy and the instruments implementing it are essential for the single market. they are an investment tool for growth and job creation by precisely meeting the investment needs of all regions. cohesion policy has not only contributed to reducing inequalities between member states and regions, but also to improving the union's economic situation and development. a common set of rules will maximise the effectiveness of all instruments under cohesion policy, the full operation of which ensures a sustainable economic recovery and enhances competitiveness.
in writing. − the esf has become a particularly important tool in times of economic crisis, when so many people, especially young people, are having difficulty finding employment in the labour market. it is from this programme that training and other activities to help people find employment can be financed. from the perspective of the internal market, professional mobility is particularly important and can be promoted through the esf. with the coming financial perspective, new challenges await us, and it is therefore important that the esf is adapted to the changing employment and economic situation, so that it can also be fully used in a dynamically changing reality, for example by responding efficiently to labour market needs by funding the acquisition of skills in areas where workers may be sought in the labour market of the future. i support the creation of a new instrument because it focuses on such key issues as promoting employment and occupational mobility, investing in education, skills and lifelong learning and promoting social inclusion. support for young people is particularly important. it is necessary because at present 21% of them are not employed within the european union and many young people have left training systems without obtaining a qualification. the adopted report will enable us to respond to these problems efficiently.
in writing. − the european social fund is the main instrument for combating unemployment and social exclusion. in the euro area, the unemployment rate is above 10%, while in spain alone it is already above 26%. therefore, actions to increase the mobility of community citizens, both occupational and geographical, should be encouraged. any regulation on the european social fund is also important because the funds derived from it are directed to specific groups of people rather than to institutions. therefore, any changes that promote education, combat poverty, prevent precarious employment, and activate people of post-productive age are very important. the fund also works to increase the integration into the labour market of people who are in a disadvantaged financial situation. it is also important to create a network of social partners, with the main involvement of ngos supporting the socially excluded and the unemployed. stimulating employment and fostering new jobs is one of the main factors that creates economic growth.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european social fund and repealing regulation (ec) no 1081/2006 (com(2011)0607/2 – c7-0327/2011 – 2011/0268(cod)). in doing so i hope that the current unemployment issues may find a solution. there is currently a 21% unemployment rate amongst young people in the eu and this is unacceptable. the esf is a vital part of resurrecting the workforce and an opportunity to move toward a stronger europe. to continue to improve social cohesion, the four main thematic objectives of the commission proposal on the esf will have to be applied for the 2014-2020 period: ‘promoting employment and labour mobility’, ‘investing in education, skills and life-long learning’, ‘promoting social inclusion and combating poverty’ and ‘enhancing institutional capacity and efficient public administration’. these steps will play an important part of the esf’s success. we must continue to support these programmes as they will lead to a better future for all.
mr. chairman, please! the simplification of the legal framework in this area has been achieved through better coordination with the many existing investment regulations. this will allow for more efficient and effective implementation of projects related to the use of the funds. interestingly, several new investment priorities are proposed, such as energy efficiency in large enterprises, railway rebuilding, urban regeneration and e-culture. the creation of a flexible urban development programme will support the current level of funding for urban development projects. the main emphasis is on supporting innovative tasks in the field of sustainable urban development. the requirements for supporting infrastructure projects are noteworthy. particularly aimed at increasing the sustainability, efficiency and safety of transport through its concentration, such as urban park and ride systems. these are actions to promote citizen mobility.
in writing. − the european regional development fund is closing the gap in economic development, productivity and employment levels between eu member states. the erdf is the most important instrument in this respect and the approval of its new shape for 2014-2020 will provide flexibility and allow better tailoring of erdf support to the diverse needs of regions across the union. the new rules set a more limited number of objectives, but they are consistent with the europe 2020 strategy. i am pleased that the regions will have to allocate a certain percentage of the funds to innovation and support for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the engine of economic growth and employment in the european union. the erdf funds will help to increase the competitiveness of european companies and strengthen their position at international level. support for cities and urban areas will be a particularly important element. in this context, the funds will enable integrated, sustainable urban development. it is very important to give greater weight to the urban dimension of cohesion policy. the rules provide the necessary flexibility in this respect so that the resources are allocated in the most wise way. in this respect, improving coordination between systems was key, precisely to deliver investments for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in line with the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the rules of the regional development fund and the investment for growth and jobs goal. i'm fully satisfied with the outcome of the vote. today's europe needs a new european regional development fund, which provides flexibility for regions to adapt to their situation and needs, while at the same time forcing a concentration of resources on several thematic areas, such as research, technological development and the transition to a low-carbon economy. we're seeing a number of new elements that are expanding the scope of future investment. the fund will support not only infrastructure but also the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and thus create new jobs. it is worth noting that over the next seven years, up to €300 million has been earmarked for innovation activities in the framework of the sustainable development of europe's cities: this will ensure a stronger focus on the development of urban areas at a strategic level.
in writing. - i thank the rapporteur for the proposal for a european regional development fund with the objective 'investment for growth and jobs'. however, the provisions contained in the draft of the fund in question do not meet polish expectations. first of all, much of the space is devoted to low-carbon policies aimed at reducing greenhouse gases, which is a disadvantage for poland, given the role of coal as the main raw material in energy production. there is no doubt that the project's advantage is to support small and medium-sized enterprises, to contribute to the development of infrastructure and to reduce disparities in development between regions. however, it should be ensured that each country is able to decide, inter alia, on its own energy infrastructure, which best corresponds to and serves the interests and security of the country concerned.
in writing. − european territorial cooperation is an important objective of cohesion policy. the lisbon treaty lists territorial cohesion as one of the key objectives of the union, and european territorial cooperation is one of the ways to achieve this objective. the challenges faced by member states and regions increasingly transcend national and regional boundaries and require joint action at the appropriate territorial level. european territorial cooperation allows for joint actions and exchange of experience not only with eu member states but also with border regions of non-eu countries. i supported the report because this instrument needs the appropriate legal framework for its proper functioning. better coordination of programmes, focus on results, simplification are the features that will allow better use of funds. european territorial cooperation is particularly useful in addressing cross-border problems and common local challenges. the identification of investment priorities is an important element of the report and will allow funds to be directed where they are most needed.
in writing. − the european regional development fund is an instrument used to reduce disparities between the regions of the european union. actions and investments to improve territorial cooperation, especially between richer regions and rural, excluded and very high unemployment areas, are important. territorial cooperation is one of the key objectives of cohesion policy, and it is therefore necessary to improve integration between the various actors at both national and regional and community level, and to improve their cooperation with the european union's border regions. support for territorial cooperation initiatives from the european regional development fund is the pursuit of the aspirations of most institutions at all three levels. it is also worth noting that the erdf assistance for territorial cooperation with third countries will increase the efficiency of the expenditure.
in writing. - i have advocated the adoption of new rules on one of the most important european funds, the cohesion fund. it is part of the legislative package of cohesion policy, which, as one of the main areas of union policy, plays a very important role in its development. the cohesion fund is intended to provide financial support for transport investments, environmental projects and innovative energy projects. in view of the above report, we must realize how important it is that we vote unanimously today to adopt it. the cohesion fund is part of the package of proposals governing cohesion policy for 2014-2020. its adoption opens up the possibility of a number of new investments in roads, railways as part of the trans-european transport networks, subsidies for low-emission transport systems, additional investments in the water sector and in the urban environment, the creation of a network of 'smart cities' and many other projects. i am convinced that the new rules of the eu's cohesion policy will guarantee europe economic growth and, consequently, the millions of new jobs so needed in an era of high unemployment in europe.
in writing. − the new framework for the funds aims to improve coordination between the funds and thus to spend funds more efficiently. the new structure of the tasks and objectives of the funds is intended to better achieve the union's overriding objectives of growth and jobs. the cohesion fund will contribute to these objectives by helping member states to reduce the disparities in economic and social levels between the countries and regions of the european union. we cannot talk about genuine european integration when there are still such large differences in the economic performance of individual member states. the cohesion fund is therefore one of the key instruments to bridge these gaps by providing financial support for large-scale investments in infrastructure development or modernisation or environmental protection. the new rules do not significantly change the objectives of the cohesion fund, but subordinate the principles to thematic objectives that translate into specific investment priorities, an approach that ensures clearer procedures and consistency with the objectives pursued by other funds. in view of the scale and importance of the projects financed by the cohesion fund, the support for improving institutional capacity is also explicitly provided for in the regulations.
in writing. − the cohesion fund is of great importance for the development of the european union because of the purpose for which it is intended. it is therefore essential that the provisions and mechanisms governing the operation of this instrument are aligned with the objectives set out in the treaties. the social fund primarily finances investments in the modernisation of railway lines, the improvement of drinking water quality and the management of municipal waste. the cohesion fund is also very important because it is currently financing one of the most important investments in the european union, the trans-european transport network. this in turn contributes to the integration of the community as a whole and to the increased mobility of citizens, especially for professional reasons. investments in maritime and inland waterway transport are also important, as are those aimed at modernising road and air traffic management systems and promoting the development of intelligent transport.
in writing. − strengthening social and economic cohesion in the eu remains an important objective. the european grouping of territorial cooperation (egtc) is helping to achieve this, enabling local authorities and other bodies to carry out joint crossborder projects with partners from other eu countries. i supported the report because the changes it introduced provide simplification, legal certainty and flexibility in the application of the rules, reducing red tape for the group and its potential members. the amendment is particularly important as it provides for approval by tacit agreement after a time limit of up to 6 months for the competent national authorities to examine the application for authorisation to form a pool. this will provide legal certainty to those seeking to form a pool and avoid unnecessary delays. the amendments will also facilitate territorial cooperation in areas such as public transport, energy and water supply, health, education and vocational training by being open to all public utilities. we will also achieve closer territorial cooperation by defining third countries more precisely and more broadly, so that actors from neighbouring countries can engage in cooperation. the key now will be to raise awareness among the institutions, member states and regions of the potential of the european grouping of territorial cooperation so that as many actors as possible can benefit from its resources and opportunities.
in writing. − the european grouping of territorial cooperation is a very important institution to promote and facilitate crossborder cooperation. the lack of a simplified procedure for granting authorisations for the establishment of egtcs discouraged potential stakeholders from setting up these institutions. therefore, the amendment to the tacit approval of the establishment of an egtc after the six-month period for the member states concerned to examine the application should be welcomed. it is also very important to de-bureaucratize procedures and to introduce a division into statutes and conventions and to differentiate the procedures for the constitution of each of these groups. the euct is very important in strategic areas of cooperation such as transport, education, energy and health. another important and well-received change is the clarification of the conditions for the participation of third countries in the grouping, which strongly encourages cooperation. the review of the regulation is also of major importance for strengthening the principle of legal certainty, which in turn is in itself an incentive for cooperation between economic partners.
in writing. - i have never opposed the principle of equal rights for women and men, but the report presented by the femm committee and the amendments proposed by the commission are unacceptable in my opinion. moreover, the union should not interfere so much in the national legislation of sovereign member states. many women hold high and responsible positions and consider that the creation of parities and the guarantee of positions to them on the basis of gender is an insult to their dignity. according to current data, two thirds of all university graduates in poland are women. unfortunately, they often have to overcome the difficulties of balancing work and family life. in poland, unlike in countries such as belgium or france, the state does not provide free care for preschool children. the financial and territorial availability of kindergartens is far from sufficient.
in writing. − the proposed directive on the increase of women's representation on the non-executive boards of companies, aiming to achieve a 40% share of the under-represented sex, is an important step towards better respect for equality as a core eu value. article 157 (3) tfeu provides the appropriate legal basis for the adoption of any binding measures aimed at ensuring the application of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. between 2003 and 2011, the share of women on company boards increased from 8,5% to 13,7%, an increase of 5,2 percentage points in just over eight years. that's far too little. in march 2011, the commission challenged the top management of listed companies to take part in the 'women on boards - a commitment for europe' initiative, which aims to increase the representation of women on boards to 30% by 2015 and 40% by 2020, but the results were still unsatisfactory and uneven, ranging from 5 to 25%. this confirms the decision to create binding rules requiring member states and companies to put in place appropriate procedures to achieve the objective. a strong common framework will be essential to promote gender balance on boards of all listed companies, offering women greater opportunities to take up senior decision-making positions and to improve the economic performance of companies through their skills. moreover, the introduction of greater transparency in the procedure for the nomination and selection of members of the management board is so far the only way to effectively guarantee diversity and selection on the basis of substantive criteria.
in writing. − as a member of the european parliament, i have been supporting the promotion of women entrepreneurs and their increased presence in business for many years. in the european union, there is currently a shortage not only of women running their own businesses, but also of women on the boards of listed companies. the ambitious target of increasing the representation of women in non-executive directors to 40% over the next 7 years is certainly a major challenge. i welcome the fact that the proposed actions focus on ensuring transparent recruitment practices that ensure equal access for women and men to the highest positions, rather than on creating preferential conditions for women based solely on gender. i also agree with the provision that any sanctions will be imposed on companies by the member states' authorities only if they fail to implement a transparent recruitment procedure, and not if they fail to reach the required 40% female representation threshold.
in writing. - i voted in favour of adopting the report on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy. this report introduces a number of new approaches to the reform of the cap for 2014-2020. i share the rapporteur's view that simplifying the administrative procedures of the cap will generate additional savings and make the policy more efficient. i also support the proposal to reduce the number of accredited paying agencies to one per member state or region. in addition, a monthly early warning and monitoring system for agricultural expenditure is a good solution to avoid the risk of exceeding the annual budgetary limit. in addition, a common list of indicators to objectively assess the effectiveness of the cap in meeting food production, sustainable management and environmental objectives should be considered. i believe that the new solutions proposed in the report will improve the functioning of the common agricultural policy in the new financial perspective and will be a step forward in simplifying administrative procedures, which will ultimately benefit farmers across the european union.
in writing. − the adoption of the package of regulations for the common agricultural policy between 2014 and 2020 will allow for the timely entry into force of all programmes and timely financing of the cap both in pillar i, i.e. direct payments, and in pillar ii, i.e. investment expenditure. the new cap especially in the case of a country like poland will provide significant support for rural areas and their sustainable development in the coming years, although overall the budget has been reduced by as much as 11%. it should be stressed that rural development with such a reduction requires support from cohesion policy. this is one of the key factors for rebuilding rural jobs and sustainable development.
in writing. − this regulation prepares the financial rules for the future common agricultural policy, improves the functioning of the principle of interdependence and develops the farm advisory system, bringing together provisions on the payment of payments, controls and penalties, the crisis reserve, agricultural advisory services and management and control systems, with regard to direct payments, rural development and the single organisation of agricultural markets. farmers will be able to choose between consultancy services provided by the state or by private companies. an early warning system has been introduced, whereby the farmer is informed in advance of irregularities that are not serious enough to constitute a threat to public or animal health. only after verification that the farmer has taken appropriate action in relation to the irregularity will the decision to impose a penalty be taken, if necessary retroactively. simplification of procedures will apply, for example, to the submission of payment applications by small farms not every year, but once every few years, with annual confirmation of continuation. the rapporteur seeks to link cap financing with management and control mechanisms in a way that is understandable and beneficial to farmers and consumers alike. it focuses on sustainable development, innovation and improving the competitiveness of farms, especially smaller ones.
the rural development fund is the cornerstone of the common agricultural policy and its overriding objective remains economic development and competitiveness in rural areas, including the creation of conditions conducive to employment growth. i hope that in the coming years the regions with the greatest economic backwardness will be the ones most likely to benefit from the aid. agriculture, for example in the masovian region, needs urgent support. investment is the best and most important element to stimulate growth today. the increase in the funds for their direct implementation should therefore have a tangible effect. unfortunately, a number of the solutions proposed in this report do not seem to be conducive to these projects. in addition, the agricultural funds are concerned about proposals that may have excessive environmental burdens that many farms, especially in poorer countries, may find difficult to cope with.
in writing. − the european fund for rural development in the new financial perspective will build on the solutions of the previous programming period. member states will be able to prepare programmes tailored to their specific needs within the framework of union legislation, focusing mainly on improving the competitiveness of agriculture, sustainable management of natural resources and climate action, and sustainable territorial development of rural areas. the priorities of the eafrd include support for knowledge transfer, the promotion of innovation and modernisation in agriculture and forestry, improving the functioning of the agri-food chain, increasing the competitiveness of farms, support for producer organisations, environmental protection and climate change action, and broad economic development of rural areas (infrastructure investment, education, culture, support under the leader programme, etc.). although the negotiations were difficult to win a reasonable position on the issue of disadvantaged areas, the final shape of the document contains provisions that allow the application of the existing rules, so that the farmer receiving unw support today will continue to receive it. the instruments available under the second pillar of the cap will give member states greater freedom to support their own regions, ensuring sustainable rural development.
in writing. − the new single cmo regulation amends existing rules to improve the functioning of the agri-food chain by increasing the benefits of cooperation between farmers through producer and inter-branch organisations. it also proposes to maintain the 'safety net' as a tool to support the industry in the event of crises on agricultural markets. the aid scheme for the most deprived will now be an instrument in its own right. during the negotiations it was agreed that the reference prices would now be considered as 'standard' reference prices, that durum wheat was added to the list of products eligible for public intervention and that the number of products eligible for private storage support was increased. the 'fruit and vegetables in schools' and 'milk in schools' programmes will become more important, using mainly local products. we also won support for hop producers. the sugar quota system will end in 2017 and the milk quota in 2015 (we also call for the creation of new instruments to counter the disturbances in the dairy sector). the european commission has committed itself to report regularly on the activities of the european food price monitoring tool and to publish advice for competition authorities in the member states.
in writing. − the equalization of payment differences between member states is the most frequently used topic in policy discussions. it was negotiated that the payments would be gradually levelled out by increasing them in those countries where farmers receive less than 90% of the eu average, and that the difference between the level of these payments and the eu average would be reduced by one third between 2015 and 2020, so that by 2020 the payments in all member states would not be lower than eur 196/ha. this is not, of course, the immediate leveling of aid that some countries would like, but let us not forget that this is what compromise is all about. the other issues addressed in the document are no less important for the new cap. greening is in a sense to legitimize cap spending. while it does impose additional requirements on farmers, the application of these will not be as drastic as commonly thought. the small farmers' scheme, in its initial proposal of a flat-rate nature, will take account of the size of the holding. support for young farmers under pillar ii will be further increased by increasing their direct payments by 25% and, thanks to the definition of an active farmer, the money will go to those who actually carry out agricultural activities. together with the other solutions, these provisions make the reform of the common agricultural policy really absorbable.
in writing. − due to the prolonged work on the reform of the common agricultural policy, it will not be possible to implement it as of 1 january 2014 as originally envisaged. the report is the result of a process of legislative work that is needed to ensure the smooth functioning of the cap in the next 'transition year'. it is also intended to help european agriculture to enter the new, reformed system easily and efficiently. the rapporteur proposes to extend the rural development actions under the current axis i and ii (competitiveness and environment and land management) which could be applied for in 2014. as the current funding period has been exhausted, new actions will be able to be financed from new envelopes already earmarked for the next financial perspective. axis iii (economic diversification and quality of life) activities, together with the leader programme, will be financed under the current programming period, as the european commission believes that there is sufficient funding for them. the negotiations also agreed that certain provisions of the new cap could be applied as early as 2014. these include the possibility of transferring funds between pillars and redistributing payments to small farms, new transitional national support provisions for countries applying the single area payment scheme, as well as an increase in the maximum level of national coupled support.
in writing. - in today's vote i supported the proposal for a regulation on the financial allocation for certain member states, including poland, from the european social fund, which is the main financial instrument of the european union. it improves working conditions and, by investing in people, it equalises opportunities for all eu citizens. i welcomed the vote: 11 billion euro for poland under the esf for 2014-2020 was approved. this money will be used to fight youth unemployment and job creation, which is very important today, and to fight poverty. the money will be available from january 2014. importantly, administrative simplifications and facilitations for small operators have been introduced, which will significantly speed up the use of the above-mentioned funds. this gives us a positive outlook, with the hope that the situation on the european labour market will improve in the near future.
in writing. − with the ep being the only directly-elected eu institution, meps have long been requesting to be allowed to decide when and where to meet. unfortunately, our appeals cannot be granted under the current eu treaty. but treaties can – and must – be changed to adapt to present-day circumstances. in our current reality, between eur 156 million and eur 204 million, and 19 000 tonnes of co2, are spent each year on parliament’s geographic dispersion. ending the multiple seat arrangement is the way forward to ensure greater efficiency and responsibility of our institutions, in both budgetary and environmental terms. one key achievement in our campaign is illustrated by the current report. this report is asking to invoke parliament’s new powers, under article 48 of the lisbon treaty, to propose a treaty change, which will give parliament the right to decide on its seating arrangements. the report is an answer to the appeals of the over 1.27 million eu citizens who signed the online petition calling for a single seat. it further illustrates the efforts of the majority of meps, who have repeatedly and consistently voted in favour of a single seat, to break free from being taken hostage by the member states.
in writing. − the right of the european parliament to decide on its own seat and working schedule is of the utmost importance in the context of the principles of democratic legitimacy and the continuing efforts to reduce the costs of administering the institutions of the european union in the context of a very unfavourable economic situation throughout the community. the estimated cost of the current organisational deployment of the european parliament is up to eur 204 million, representing up to 10% of the annual budget. in addition, consideration should be given to the environmental costs, the time lost in travelling and commuting and the logistical organisation. the building in strasbourg is currently unused for approximately 320 days a year, which generates additional maintenance costs. any organisational changes are therefore necessary to improve the organisation and functioning of the european parliament's work and to remove the regulations which constitute barriers to the institution's ability to determine its own seat and work schedule.
in writing. - i welcome the proposal on the location of the seats of the institutions of the european union. given the high costs of maintaining the three eu seats and of making monthly trips, i believe that action should be taken to establish one seat for the european parliament instead of the three currently in place. this would save time and efficiency. i know that many poles are also against monthly trips. we see what is happening in crisis-ridden europe. it's time to get down to earth and jump in with the unnecessary expenses. the key issue is the right of the european parliament and its representatives to decide on their own system of functioning, including the place of their meetings.
author of the draft opinion of the legal affairs committee. − indeed, it is a fundamental programme that will decide whether european science, european industry and businesses and european researchers will be innovative and mobile. it's up to us to invest in the best projects. as a pole, i am personally delighted that the programme for young scientists has now a full name: the name of marie skłodowska-curie. it's very symbolic for us. but as a member of the legal affairs committee, i want to say that my committee has an opinion on ethical issues, and we know that today in many countries research on human embryos is banned, that's what this opinion was about. the european court of justice has also expressed similar views. the legal affairs committee therefore recommended that research on human embryos not be funded unless there are also unambiguous results. we know that adult somatic cell research has the same effects, and we also know that legally, in those countries where it's banned, they wouldn't have equal access to those resources. i therefore do not know whether the committee's proposal will be voted in favour or whether the compromise proposal will win, but as a member of the legal affairs committee i had to submit to the committee this opinion, which was prepared by me and voted on.
in many ways, horizon 2020 is a promising package for innovation. emphasising the industrial applications of research is a step in the right direction. reducing and simplifying the bureaucracy of innovation programmes is of great importance, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which should be more involved in innovation activities that in turn build our competitive advantage in the world. the omission of the legal affairs committee's opinion on the ethical clauses that should apply to eu research programmes is a serious problem. research using stem cells of embryonic origin is morally unacceptable. the prospect, the promise of a cure, doesn't justify killing. the exclusion of such studies is also justified on purely scientific grounds. umbilical cord blood stem cells, and stem cells obtained by reprogramming skin cells, are a real alternative and the future of this research. the use of embryonic cells does not produce comparable results today. and that is why eu funding for such research should be banned.
the horizon 2020 programme submitted by the european commission states that all research and innovation activities will be carried out in accordance with ethical principles, national and international legislation and the charter of fundamental rights. it is difficult to base this on the charter of fundamental rights, because although it says that everyone has the right to life, it does not specify, unfortunately, that from the moment of conception to natural death. if we take seriously the commission's statement on the implementation of ethical principles, it is too weak a statement in the same text that the european commission does not explicitly encourage the use of human embryonic stem cells. that's not enough. in the run-up to the first european citizens' initiative 'one of us', signed by almost 2 million europeans calling for a total ban on experimentation on human embryos, the european commission should already take into account the will and determination of so many citizens of the european union.
the framework programmes were designed to create a common research area that would allow the union's vast intellectual potential to be tapped. is that what happened? no, i'm not going. central and eastern european countries have been marginalised. the current arrangements will help to simplify the procedures for financing and link projects to the cohesion funds. that's good, that's good. the research priorities are right. however, there is still a lack of transparency in the evaluation of projects. the participation of countries has a political dimension and therefore the experts assessing the criteria adopted should be proposed by the member states. the excellence criteria used in the previous and the current programmes are also subject to pragmatic definition. i'm afraid that the interpretation of this term by the experts who reported on the principle of "open calls" favors well-known companies and eliminates the less well-known, but not inferior, eastern teams. and it's not about excellence in raising money, it's about the probability of success in research and implementation.
madam president! the european union is losing economic competitiveness to countries like the united states and even china, and in some areas even to russia and brazil. this is, you could say, a wake-up call to do something about it, to make the european union's economy more competitive. there is no doubt that the excessive regulation of the economy, to which this parliament is very much attached, by adopting new legal solutions every now and then which oblige economic operators and small and mediumsized enterprises to comply with various requirements and standards, makes this competitiveness increasingly costly, blocking the development of the competitiveness we would like to see. another problem is that the accumulation of innovation-related funds occurs in the so-called old countries of the european union, leaving out the new, poorer ones. and then there's the problem of brain drain, the outflow of highly skilled, talented young people to the more organized, wealthier countries of the european union. all of this needs to be tackled, but above all, we need to reduce over-regulation, the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises. this is the way to improve the economic situation and innovation.
madam president! the 'horizon 2020' programme presents a new integrated approach to the commercialisation of research. i am pleased that the programme has placed a proper emphasis on supporting innovative companies, including smes. recent studies by the european commission and the european central bank indicate that access to finance is one of the most important problems facing entrepreneurs. this is why it is so important to fund their research at the conceptual, implementation and commercialisation stages in order to boost the innovation capacity of smes and enable them to compete in global markets. for horizon to be effective, it should be complementary to the structural funds. this will allow for tailoring support to specific needs, to specific regions and for so-called smart specialisation.
madam president! after the failure of the lisbon strategy, i am pleased that the commission's horizon 2020 programme shows that we are beginning to learn from the past. despite the shortcomings mentioned by the rapporteurs, it is a step in the right direction. the solution of combining the entire innovation chain, from basic research to the market, in one programme, and the pursuit of administrative simplification is fundamental. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular through the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) and the european neighbourhood instrument (eni) in order to ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is fully integrated into the union's macro-financial assistance. since the research is carried out for union funds, the conclusions should be a public good for the benefit of science. secondly, the commission's proposal to combine the european regional development fund and horizon 2020 could have a very significant impact. this decision will allow the regional authorities to be more involved in the research activities undertaken and thus increase their impact on the regional economy. however, it should be borne in mind that all our proposals may be wasted if they do not find sufficient funds to implement them. i'm afraid that even if we increase these funds, they will not be enough to compete effectively with the world.
i'm not going to let you do this. it is almost a truism to say that smes are the pillar of the european economy. it is constantly emphasised that they are the ones that make up a significant part of the eu's gdp and provide jobs for the majority of europeans. surprisingly, little is done to improve their living conditions. the neglect of smes is becoming more and more evident. research shows that european smes are less efficient and grow more slowly than their counterparts in other parts of the world. we are slowly losing one of the few remaining advantages we have in the global confrontation. it is high time to take steps to make it easier for smes to operate on the eu market, including reducing administrative and tax burdens. measures should also be taken to enable european companies to expand beyond the european market. while large companies can manage on their own, small and medium-sized enterprises need support in expanding into third-country markets, for example by accessing information on the law and standards in force there. in times of crisis and high unemployment, it is essential that we exploit all the opportunities for stimulating economic growth, and these are largely linked to the untapped potential of small and medium-sized enterprises. i congratulate the commission on the creation of the first eu programme to target smes. i wish you every success in the implementation of this programme.
i'm not going to let you get away with this. although smes account for almost 70% of private sector jobs and generate around 60% of total turnover in the european union, their potential is not yet fully exploited. i am therefore pleased that the commission has presented a specific programme aimed at the growth and competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. i hope that the communication on stimulating entrepreneurship and the facilitation of access to finance for smes under horizon 2020 will provide a coherent package for supporting eu entrepreneurship. i agree with mr creutzmann that we must focus on reducing the administrative burden, which remains a major barrier. i am also pleased that 60% of the cosme budget, which is more than originally planned, will be allocated to these financial instruments.
madam president! we are in a situation where a very clear lack of political will and differences of opinion mean that a common armed force will not be established in europe in the coming years. the reluctance to have a joint army must, in my view, be a means of increasing our joint defence capabilities. so we have to ask ourselves, what can be done, practically and concretely, now, in this situation? well, i think we need to focus on three things. first, there should be a debate here at home and here in parliament, and more broadly, on the various threats to the european continent. i think we also have to keep in mind that the level of our security does not depend solely on the condition of nato, although it is true that the nato alliance is of paramount importance. i think we also have to increase our own security resources in europe. the second problem is that we have to work very hard and practically to develop european capacity. there are a number of very sad issues here, and i think we should be concerned that progress is so weak, whether it's in strategic transportation or aerial refueling capability. and finally, the third thing: it is the european defence industry. here too, a very active policy is needed. you can't rely on the market itself, because the market itself will mean that we'll be buying weapons from other countries.
madam president, minister, commissioner, i have to tell you that i am not going to let you go. it is very good that the european union summit on security and defence policy will be held in december, and even better that we are discussing this subject in the european parliament right now, before the summit. for most countries in the european union, there are - you could say - three pillars of security, providing security and defence. these are, of course, the military capabilities of most european countries, and perhaps of all, even those that are not members of nato, and this is the common security and defence policy. and now our task, or the task of our leaders, is to build this system of these three pillars so that it doesn't interfere with each other, so that it complements each other. i agree with all those who said that these abilities and structures cannot duplicate. we don't have enough money to allow ourselves to duplicate certain tasks, but i think the last few years have shown very good, or better, deeper cooperation between these structures, between nato and the european union. of course, we know that we cannot afford everything, but especially in times of financial crisis, when we have to cut defense budgets in many countries, this should encourage us to deepen our cooperation.
in writing. the current geopolitical situation of the european union, namely: the gradual shift in the priorities of the us armed forces, whose greater attention is now focused on the far east; the growing unrest in north africa and asia minor, which are the union's southern flank; the uncontrolled proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, which may be at the disposal of some so-called rogue states, and the collapse of european industry, including the difficult situation of the european defence industry, require better harmonisation of the production of the defence industry in the member states of the union. this will undoubtedly unlock positive synergies through: coordination of current research and innovation, and through the organisation of joint research centres; standardisation and unification of equipment and munitions; observation and defence of europe's space both from earth and from space; and cyber security. the harmonisation of the development of the eu defence industry should clearly respond to the needs of the solidarity defence of the union area, i.e. the living space of the member states of the community.
member of the commission. − mr president, i welcome this debate today. we have all been intensely involved in courageous and far-sighted decisions and reforms to construct new and better economic governance for the union. we must bear in mind the new challenges these reforms create for official statistics. our policies and decisions can only be credible and effective if the statistics on which they are based are of the highest quality and credible. to that end, we have to be reassured that the underlying data collected in member states are reliable and based on efficient and effective national and union statistical systems, as well as on professional and independent national statistical authorities. the commission’s proposal was driven by these considerations. the european parliament has consistently supported the commission’s agenda in statistics. this was clear in the draft report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs that was adopted almost unanimously last december. however, i have to admit that, after numerous negotiations, the proposal on european statistics has lost some of the ambition and objectives of the original text. firstly, more focus is now given to the eu interinstitutional set-up – such as eurostat status – than to real systemic solutions. in particular, we need to clarify and strengthen the coordinating role of national statistical institutes within their national statistical systems and to ensure that member state governments commit to preserving the professional independence of national statistical institutes, by signing commitments on confidence in statistics. european statistics are dependent on the data provided at national level. the standards and necessary safeguards must, therefore, be the same for all actors at all levels of the european statistical system. furthermore, the amendments do not maintain the union’s institutional balance. that creates an additional imbalance between the european and national levels, in terms of the status of the heads of statistical authorities. therefore, the commission has difficulty in accepting the current amendments in this form, in particular, some of the provisions on the director-general of eurostat. however, the commission is ready to continue negotiations in order to point things in the right direction in this strategic reform. in this respect, i rely on parliament’s support and ambition.
the question was asked by raising the 'blue card' addressed to ildiko gáll-pelcz. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. what struck me was the discrepancy between the rapporteur's and mrs pelcz's statements. the rapporteur stressed the european commission's reluctance to appoint the president of eurostat as an independent body, but mr šemeta reiterated that the commission would insist. i would therefore like to ask mrs pelcz if she is closer to the rapporteur's or the commissioner's view. because i personally am closer to the rapporteur's view.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, firstly i would like to thank you for the views expressed during this debate. this proposal has been on our agenda for some time, but somewhere along the way the initial objective got lost in discussions. it is important to note that the text on the table today requires further work. that was also clearly recognised by the rapporteur. member states are deeply divided and the council cannot support it. in particular, concerns have been expressed by the representatives of those member states where national statistical institutes already enjoy a high level of professional independence and where they exercise the necessary powers in coordinating their national statistical systems. i would like to be very clear here. we would like the scope of this proposal to be restored to the extent initially proposed by the commission, or close to it. i fully understand what ms gáll-pelcz said about the need for input from the director-general of eurostat. we are ready to support this idea in the format of structural dialogue. among many other things, we are particularly concerned about the independence of national statistical institutes and we want the regulation to ensure that national statistical institutes have a high level of independence. their coordinating powers are crucial to the high quality of european statistics. the issue of the commitment on confidence in statistics is, of course, also very important. i believe that our objectives are the same, so what we need now is to work a little bit more and to reach an agreement which will ensure high-quality european statistics. we in the commission are ready to work with both parliament and the council on the final compromise. i believe that parliament will take a similar approach and that we will ultimately arrive at a good solution.
member of the commission. − president, first of all i wish to thank the rapporteur ms steinruck, the chair of the committee on employment, ms bérès, and all the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive approach to the proposal. following fruitful cooperation between the three institutions, i believe we have reached our common objective. at a time of crisis and looming demographic, environmental and technological changes affecting our labour markets and social protection systems, such legislation is very timely. europe needs an eu-level instrument, alongside the european social fund, to contribute to inclusive growth, promote more and better jobs and fight against poverty and inequalities. the eu programme for employment and social innovation (easi) – with a proposed budget of eur 815 million for the 2014-2020 period – will support member states’ efforts to design and implement employment and social reforms. it will benefit national, regional and local authorities as well as social partners and civil society organisations. concrete projects and activities will help to test reforms on the ground before the possible scaling-up of the most successful, including via the esf. in this context, easi will devote around eur 100 million to launching such experiments in the most critical policy areas, such as youth employment and the inclusion of disadvantaged groups. the easi programme will enable the commission to increase both the policy coherence and the impact of other eu policy and financial instruments contributing to the europe 2020 strategy for jobs and growth and the implementation of the european semester. as you know, easi integrates, improves and extends the coverage of three existing programmes: progress (programme for employment and social solidarity), eures (european employment services) and the european progress microfinance facility. progress will devote particular attention to youth employment and continue to support the implementation of eu policy in the areas of employment, social inclusion and working conditions through evidence-gathering, information-sharing, mutual learning and reform testing. by integrating eures within easi, the commission will pursue the successful your first eures job preparatory action by launching dedicated mobility schemes to facilitate job search and promote job matching at eu level. labour mobility can be a powerful adjustment mechanism to address the imbalances the european labour markets are facing – in particular labour and skills shortages co-existing with high unemployment. finally, the microfinance instrument and the new financial instrument for social enterprises will help lay the basis for supporting entrepreneurship and offer a platform for experimentation that can be scaled up by member states, including with support from the european social fund. together with the esf, the fund for european aid to the most deprived and the european globalisation adjustment fund, easi forms the fourth pillar of the eu initiative for employment and social inclusion 2014-2020.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on budgetary control. - mr president! - what are you doing? from the point of view of the committee on budgetary control, two items, or two aspects, are particularly important. the first is the gross sum and it's significant. the second aspect is transparency in the use and allocation of funds. and from this point of view, we believe that first the very objective of increasing the mobility of people within the european union, facilitating job search, exchanging best practices, but above all social inclusion and equal opportunities are indeed key issues and should be given a lot of attention. we believe that maintaining the principle of transparency in the accounts will not be easy. why would you do that? we're talking about a lot of transactions, with a lot of loans and a lot of small amounts. but people need it. i would like to express my deep appreciation on behalf of the committee to the rapporteur, mrs jutty steinruck. the fact that the committee voted 30 votes in favour and only 1 against is a testament to the quality of the work.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - mr president! - what are you doing? one in five people in europe is at risk of poverty and social exclusion. more than 20% of young people are unemployed. i hope that the new programme and the combination of progres, eures and the microfinance facility will prove in practice not just a bureaucratic simplification, but a real tool with tangible benefits for the beneficiaries, contributing to the effective dissemination of a high level of sustainable employment. i am glad that the european parliament has given priority to young people in its report, with particular emphasis on facilitating their access to the labour market. i would also like to stress the importance of microcredit and its important role in the fight against exclusion. small and micro-enterprises account for almost 99% of new businesses created in europe, and one third of them are created by the unemployed and young people. this is why it is so important to have a high percentage of microcredit in the budget of the new programme. as rapporteur for the committee on regional development, i draw particular attention to the role of regional, local and urban authorities in the implementation of the new programme and the need to involve them at all operational and project evaluation stages.
first of all, i would like to welcome the commissioner. i think we all know how hard our reporter fought to get that money. in times of crisis, you know there are cuts everywhere. here's a thank you, because this was a fight, it wasn't a request, it wasn't just an accounting estimate, it was really a fight to keep this program not just alive, but to have an increased pool of funds to do its work. it consists of two sub-programmes. it's very good that the second climate protection sub-programme has been set aside. we know that there's a climate summit going on right now, and many of the problems that we have, perhaps, by paying attention to it, will be solved. however, this programme should be interoperable with horizon 2020. we know that this second programme will have innovation, a lot of research, and it's very important that these two programmes work together, that they complement each other. the main task, as far as the life programme is concerned, is to use these funds, but to use them absolutely efficiently and to monitor them continuously. what, shall we say, were the flaws? the drawbacks were that not all non-qualified costs were always included in the accounts and these were personnel costs, vat costs and they made it very clear that not everyone could, not all entities could benefit from this programme in the way we would have liked, because especially small enterprises, small entities with the scale of the programmes much smaller, they could not benefit because they did not have the own contributions so necessary for this complement. the disadvantage is that these funds are often centrally managed by the commission and the projects selected are not always prioritised. we have now set these priorities and i hope that these priorities will show that these are the best possible implementations.
mr. chairman, please! the natural environment is a priceless asset and we in europe should protect it. it is good that we are involved in this, and even better if we find the means to support these activities. however, the european union's approach to so-called climate policy must be assessed with utmost criticism. the warsaw summit is now underway, and it will end as it always has, with no agreement, and china, the united states, brazil and india will not participate in these extremely restrictive restrictions that the european union is imposing on itself. this will have far-reaching consequences for the economy and the competitiveness of the european union in the face of the economies of the countries i have mentioned. it will lead to the fact that jobs will now be moved out of the european union to those regions of the world that are not concerned about climate change and that do not intend to participate in or commit themselves in any way to reducing carbon emissions. so, if we are aware that the european union is only responsible for 11% of the carbon emissions of the world, even if the european union were to reduce its emissions by 80%, it would not change the overall situation in terms of global emissions, because if we look globally, there is no limit to the atmosphere, emissions in china or in europe are the same, so there will be no effect other than a significant weakening of the competitiveness of the european economy. as a result, if we want to make rational climate policy action, we have to do it together, and if there is no will to act together, we have to abandon ineffective, irrational, absurd climate policy, which will have no effect other than to weaken the european economy - the economy of the european union - significantly.
the european court of auditors' report for the past year shows that almost 5% of the annual budget of the union was spent improperly: the highest irregularity is in rural areas almost 8%. this means that in one year alone, some 7 billion euros were misused. what is worrying is that we have seen this trend of growth for several years now. the court blames both the member states and the european commission for this state of affairs. it also draws attention to the need to simplify the legal framework, an aspect which has been overlooked so far. and it is precisely this simplification of the legal framework that should be the first step towards healing the situation. this would send a good signal to farmers, businesses, local authorities and other beneficiaries of eu funds who want to use these funds in accordance with the rules.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. when we look at the latest report of the court of auditors, two things come to mind. firstly and this is to be noted with great satisfaction as a positive phenomenon the court of auditors is increasingly responding to comments from various quarters and concerning not only the verification of the level of errors but also the verification of the effectiveness of policies, the effectiveness of action. in this year's report, we are already dealing with the part that deals with the quality of the policies implemented. this seems to be a very good direction, because it is only when you combine efficiency, effectiveness and quality of operation with the level of errors that you get a certain result. at the same time, when we discuss discharge, we must remember that the court, like any audit institution, is looking at the situation at the moment and it is not so much what happens at the moment as what is done later, how much the member states improve the situation. as long as the european commission checks that the situation is actually improved. so very often the picture in the report is negative, and the reality is completely different. it's worth remembering that, and then we'll be discussing not the text itself, but the signals of anomalies that need to be corrected.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? funding research, innovation and technological development is an important task for any government. it translates directly into an increase in the political and economic potential of countries. the community must also pursue similar objectives if it is to remain a significant player on the international scene. the main advantage of this programme is the de-bureaucratization of procedures, which will allow a wider participation of enterprises, previously effectively eliminated by numerous administrative barriers. at the same time, regulations are crucial to raise the level of the scientific base and to train future scientific leaders. i therefore welcome solutions that place emphasis on the competitiveness of european industry. however, the report as it stands allows for the practical freedom of stem cell research. this, in my view, is in clear contradiction with the need to protect human dignity, including in the embryonic stage.
in writing. − research, innovation and competitiveness are the areas that will be able to develop efficiently in the european union in the coming years thanks to funding from the 'horizon 2020' programme. thanks to high levels of innovation and investment in research, countries like japan are at the forefront of the world's economic development. in the eu we have a huge potential in this respect, but without targeted action to support these aspects of scientific development, innovation will be too slow and thus the eu's competitiveness will still be insufficient. the economic crisis has exposed the flaws of the european system and forced us to look for new solutions. research and innovation are the ways in which europe 2020 sees sustainable and sustainable growth. so we need a knowledge-based economy. from a trans-european perspective, it should also be noted that the competitiveness of our companies depends to a large extent on scientific progress and the use of innovative technologies, otherwise it will be difficult for them to compete on the global market. the new programme will give the eu new opportunities for economic development and strengthen the eu's role in the international arena.
in writing. − the objective of the 'horizon 2020' package is to establish a framework programme for research and innovation for the years 2014-2020. through horizon 2020, for the first time, eu funding for research and innovation will be concentrated under a single programme. the european union's research and innovation policy is of particular importance for the union's competitiveness. the eu aims to adapt to the ever-changing world by pursuing a research policy that will put the eu at the forefront of technology, leading to job creation and economic recovery. the 'horizon 2020' programme aims to use scientific discoveries in innovative scientific products, which will open up new opportunities for businesses and improve the lives of citizens. the 'horizon 2020' programme aims to bridge the gap between academia and the market. this is to be achieved by supporting the technological development of modern enterprises, aimed at producing specific products with real commercial potential. the programme shall promote joint ventures between the private sector and member states. it also aims to reduce red tape by simplifying the rules and procedures for submitting applications in order to attract more researchers and innovative businesses. for these reasons, i fully support the establishment of horizon 2020.
in writing. − in today's vote i supported the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing 'horizon 2020'. this programme will contribute to the european industrial leadership and to the enhancement of the excellence of the scientific base. this is a great opportunity for our country, where investments in science and higher education infrastructure have reached pln 18.6 billion in recent years, and with the horizon 2020 programme we will be able to maintain this investment pace. the project aims to bridge the gap between academia and the market and to promote joint ventures between the private sector and the member states. the programme, which will be available from january 2014, will aim to remove barriers to the creation of a single market for knowledge, science and innovation. i am satisfied with the outcome of today's vote and thank the rapporteur for his comprehensive presentation of the subject.
in writing. − the present report setting out the rules for participation and dissemination in horizon 2020 aims to keep the european union at the forefront of economic development, innovation and competitiveness. this programme will support research facilities and scientists whose discoveries, knowledge and new technologies will contribute to industrial, economic and employment growth, among other things. eu cooperation with member states in science is an opportunity to maintain industry leadership in innovation and to achieve sustainable development. it is also important that smes will have a great opportunity to receive funding and thus to develop. the key issue is therefore to simplify the rules and to make it easier for beneficiaries, especially in financial terms. i'm not in favor of the eu funding stem cell research.
in writing. − the adoption of horizon 2020 is crucial as it is intended to become a key instrument for supporting research and innovation and contributing to increased competitiveness. however, whether its potential is fully exploited depends to a large extent on the principles governing participation in the programme. this report provides, inter alia, for a significant simplification of the rules of the programme with regard to, for example, the recognition of the usual accounting practices of beneficiaries or the establishment of a single set of common rules. the programme will also be more accessible to new actors who have not previously participated in the procedure and are therefore less experienced. it should also be borne in mind that the attractiveness of funds for companies is that innovative companies can receive a subsidy for their activities relatively quickly. therefore, the key provision is to explicitly limit the time allowed for granting grants to six months. this gives companies legal certainty and a viable instrument to actually support the industry. this is particularly relevant for highly innovative smes, as well as for research partners around the world, for whom such legislation will certainly be an incentive to cooperate in the eu. the new rules should also contribute to a better understanding by businesses of how their commercial interests will be protected when participating in horizon 2020.
any action aimed at strengthening the competitiveness and development of enterprises contributes to economic growth while raising the living standards of citizens. self-employment and self-development are now the most important sources of new jobs. i'm advocating for broad support for citizens who are facing these challenges. the development of small businesses is based on reducing bureaucracy and administrative burdens, and also on an efficient and friendly lending mechanism in the start-up phases of a newly established enterprise. i hope that proper regulation of these matters will help to promote the professional activation of young people in particular. i expect the commission to initiate information activities, in particular in the field of advice on potential barriers to entry, funding opportunities and national legal disparities. promoting modern business models like digital services is the key to the future.
in writing. − the cosme programme aims to support all small and medium-sized enterprises and focuses on economic growth. the programme allocates over eur 2 billion for the period 2014-2020 to enterprises and smes and entrepreneurial activities. the programme supports the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and will contribute to the competitiveness of european smes. the promotion of entrepreneurship is an important objective of the programme. businesses, and smes in particular, are the engine of the european economy, creating jobs and contributing to prosperity, and europeans should be more willing to engage in their own business. unfortunately, the lack of funding for activities can often be a barrier, but the programme also addresses this challenge by facilitating access to finance. i think it is particularly important to support target groups such as young people and women. i am glad that the rules of the new programme do indeed reduce the administrative burden, because these are the kinds of barriers that have discouraged entrepreneurs from setting up companies. it is also important to increase the involvement of organisations representing smes, as they are essential to achieving the objectives of the programme. self-employment and business development, as well as the integration of target groups into business activities, are important sources of growth and jobs at eu level, and the new programme will further support entrepreneurship in the eu from next year.
in writing. - the new programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises (cosme) is aimed in particular at entrepreneurs who will benefit from easier access to finance for their business activities, as well as at citizens who have problems setting up or running their own business. it's a step in the right direction. access to finance for smes should be facilitated, an enabling environment for new business creation should be created, entrepreneurship in europe should be promoted and the competitiveness of the european economy should be strengthened. this programme will help unlock the growth potential of enterprises by focusing on stimulating existing industry. this will strengthen the competitiveness of businesses and create new jobs, which should lead to a strengthening of the growth potential of the union economy. it is good that measures are also provided to promote entrepreneurship, which will include the development of business skills and entrepreneurial attitudes, especially among young entrepreneurs and women. according to the european commission, the programme can help 39,000 companies create or maintain 29,500 jobs and bring 900 new products, services or processes to market each year. entrepreneurs, especially those intending to start cross-border activities, will have easier access to credit.
in writing. - i welcome the recognition of competitiveness as a guarantee of employment growth and economic stability in the eu. i also believe that the potential of smes lies primarily in the smooth functioning of the market, both at regional and global level. facilitating access to finance and reducing red tape encourages the development of new businesses and thereby contributes to strengthening economic competitiveness in europe and beyond. in particular, in times of unemployment, action is needed to create new jobs and self-employment.
in writing. - i would like to thank you for the presentation of the report on european statistics. in view of the shortcomings, the numerous incidents and the decline in public confidence in the statistics produced, action should be taken to improve the reliability and accuracy of the statistical surveys carried out within the european statistical system. clearly, data collection cannot be politically motivated, since it is harmful both to the image and to the interests of the country. independence, confidentiality and appropriate quality standards should therefore be maintained to prevent any fraud and manipulation of european statistics. statistics are primarily intended to provide the necessary knowledge of public opinion so that governments can know the state of their economy and then take appropriate action and measures.
the social transformation and innovation programme is intended to develop employment policies, combat unemployment, which is also very important among young people, prevent various forms of discrimination, increase cross-border exchanges of workers and improve the availability of financing for micro-enterprises. all these elements and many others described in the programme are intended to be used to actively combat unemployment and poverty and social exclusion. these objectives, combined with the alarmingly high rate of unemployment among europeans, are our priorities for the new financial perspective. therefore, when creating a new tool in the form of a programme for social change and innovation, we must first and foremost ensure that we make the most of all its potential in the future. i am very pleased that the european parliament has adopted this programme by a large majority and that i have had the opportunity to support it.
in writing. − in the context of weak short-term economic prospects, rising youth unemployment in some member states and the resulting very high social costs, comprehensive action is urgently needed in this area. i voted for the report on the employment and social innovation programme today because it is part of this comprehensive approach to the problem, supporting eu member states in their work on social reform at european, national, regional and local level. social innovation is a tool to tackle challenges such as ageing populations and new employment models. the merger of progress, eures and the microfinance facility into a single programme for social change and innovation has had its supporters and opponents. however, i support the view that bringing these eu initiatives closer together will help to coordinate and make them more effective. the last two days of this plenary session have shown that europe can reach a compromise on the issues that so often divide us, especially when it comes to money. in times of crisis, we are most at risk of being torn apart by the employment and the struggle for jobs. national interests often take precedence over the european position. i hope that the outcome of the current vote in the european parliament will lead to further compromises and agreements in areas as important to us today as the posting of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mrs jutty steinruck on the programme for employment and social innovation, because i believe that the proposal for a single programme combining the existing progress, eures and progress microfinance programmes is an important step towards better coordination of the european union's action in the field of employment and social policy and towards simplification and optimisation of procedures. moreover, in the face of the difficult situation on european labour markets, it is particularly important to find new, innovative solutions, to promote mobility and to increase access to microcredit. i would also like to stress the need to take steps to avoid funding the same actions through different instruments, such as the esf or the erdf. better coordination will reduce the risk of overlapping support and ensure appropriate synergies between instruments. similarly, the allocation of funds between the different axes of the programme should be transparent and key concepts for the implementation of the programme, such as innovation and social experimentation, should be clearly defined.
in writing. − the european programme for social change and innovation (psci), which will be renamed the 'european programme for employment and social innovation' (easi), has a budget of €815 million (for the years 2014-2020) and combines three existing programmes: facilitating access to microcredit, promoting the geographical mobility of workers across the eu and exchanging experience and good practice. we can provide a common, coherent programme structure with clear funding priorities for innovative projects, so as to increase employment and help combat social exclusion. the programme will focus on helping young people to find work, reducing long-term unemployment and social exclusion, combating discrimination and promoting gender equality. we have ensured the continuity of the crossborder partnerships that were threatened in the commission's original proposal. the compromise reached in the informal negotiations between parliament, the council and the commission has enabled us to support this project, which is so important for the future of europe.
in writing. − thank you for your report on the eu programme for social change and innovation. its key activities are to improve employment and its conditions and to promote social solidarity. such actions are particularly important in the current european labour market. union policy should aim to improve the lives of citizens and reduce poverty. the report confirms that one of the key objectives is to pursue a common social policy to meet the needs and challenges of society. improving employment, health and social conditions will undoubtedly contribute to more effective labour markets and social inclusion. the programme, which is intended to take account of the specific territorial and economic situation of each eu country, will gradually eliminate regional disparities.
in writing. − the global economic crisis has re-examined the approach to climate policy of the countries most important to the global economy. the previous climate summits in durban and ad-dauschedausche were a complete failure of european climate policy. this is because of the unrealistic and economically disruptive assumptions of the eu's climate policy. this is obvious to the rest of the world, which does not accept such a restrictive policy. for the european commission, which is preparing unrealistic strategies, this is not a reason to reflect. in the eu, poland is the first to understand this, which is being subjected to restrictions that are harmful to the economy, despite its common sense. this will hit polish citizens hardest - especially the poorest, who will have to pay another tax, this time on air. i call on the commission and the council to put a stop to this harmful policy which is working against the development of my country.
in writing. − life is the continuation of the life+ programme, which ran from 2007 to 2013. it is the only fund devoted entirely to environmental protection in the european union, and is the main instrument for direct financing of community environmental policy. the programme is intended to support activities carried out by public and private institutions. there is no doubt that the eu must support action on biodiversity, the environment and resource efficiency, as well as environmental management and information. climate action to mitigate and adapt to climate change, and the management and information of climate action are also needed. the challenge is to implement such a policy to protect the environment and combat climate change without damaging the economy and reducing european competitiveness. and that, in my view, is the key mission of the life programme.
in writing. − as an opponent of drastic cuts in carbon emissions and restrictions on the extraction and use of natural resources as energy sources, i believe that actions to protect forests, among other things, as natural carbon sinks and to preserve biodiversity are a step towards preventing environmental degradation. it also welcomes the proposal to finance developing countries, where 75% of the costs will be covered. cooperation between countries and sharing of successful projects is a way of innovating and spreading better and more effective practices.
in writing. − the report on the action programme for taxation calls for a coherent tax policy in the eu. given the significant problem of tax evasion, aggressive tax avoidance and use of tax havens, there is a need to change the existing situation. the aid is intended to bring about programmes to improve the efficiency of tax authorities, which will contribute, inter alia, to greater financial protection and cooperation between individual member states and the eu. i believe that a common tax policy will improve the financial interests of the member states, increase tax efficiency and security, and increase competitiveness. the key issue is the fight against fraud, which in the current economic climate contributes to the financial losses of the states. increased control and transparency mean strengthening internal markets and protecting financial interests.
in writing. − the customs action programme pursues the fundamental objective of strengthening the internal market through cooperation between customs authorities and officials of the member states. it is a key element in the consistent implementation of union customs law. a number of useful elements have been proposed to promote the financial and economic interests of the community. these include provisions on combating fraud, protecting intellectual property rights, enhancing the competitiveness of enterprises and protecting consumers. the emphasis on computerisation and modern customs procedures and control strategies is reflected in the need to adapt the mechanism to rapidly changing conditions. the concrete solutions will facilitate legitimate trade or reduce the cost of doing business by reducing administrative burdens. they will also improve the functioning of the customs authorities. at the same time, the programme guarantees a certain degree of the necessary budgetary flexibility.
in writing. − the facilitation of trade or the security of products entering the european union from third countries, as well as the effectiveness of the fight against illegal trade, is linked to the operational capacity of border services. the effectiveness of their actions depends to a large extent on the customs action programme approved today, which will provide over eur 547 million to improve the functioning of the customs union. these measures will support cooperation between customs services of different member states, which is crucial to ensuring the integrity of the eu's external borders. the programme will enable joint activities, training and the introduction of fully operational computer systems. to ensure that the programme runs smoothly, the report adopted today divides the programme into general, specific and operational objectives. it is also important to harmonise and standardise customs control procedures to combat fraud, so that it is easier to respond to the dynamic challenges of new customs challenges. it is worth mentioning that one of the priorities of the programme is to facilitate legitimate trade, reduce compliance costs and administrative burdens and protect against unfair competition, which is essential for the competitiveness of european companies, but also for consumers. the programme is very important for the internal market, as it will be significantly strengthened by an efficient and effective customs union.
in writing. − i thank the rapporteur for presenting the report on the eu customs action programme 2014-2020. the numerous trade and goods flows are creating new customs challenges. in the face of daily adversity, ensuring adequate safety is an important issue. therefore, the continuation and improvement of the customs programme is intended to ensure better cooperation between customs authorities. through efficient action within the customs union, it will be possible to strengthen internal markets, better protect citizens and, among other things, increase the competitiveness of businesses or a fully legal trade that excludes any fraud. the key issue is to carry out the necessary modernisation of the union's customs legislation and legislation in order to improve the information systems and thus ensure the protection of the financial and economic interests of the member states.
in writing. - the resolution we voted on is the ep's contribution to the next wto ministerial conference, to be held in indonesia from 3 to 6 december 2013. the resolution stresses the ep's commitment to the multilateral trading system and its support for an ambitious and balanced outcome of the 9th ministerial conference (9mc). the ep expects results in three areas: trade, agriculture and development. the trade facilitation agreement should be binding but linked to the support of developed countries for developing economies. the european parliament also called on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's food security is not undermined by the threat of a global food crisis. development should be at the heart of these processes. developing countries should be granted tax-free and unlimited access to the free market. the european parliament should also be informed and actively involved in the preparations for the 9th mc, which requires a strengthened role for the ep and the establishment of a permanent ep representation to the wto.
in writing. − the promotion of entrepreneurship in the european union remains the main objective of action at eu level. european companies need support because they still face too many administrative barriers to operating in the internal market. they also face problems in obtaining financing for their activities. however, it is entrepreneurship that has the potential to restore sustainable and balanced economic growth in the european union. in its position adopted today, the european parliament stresses the need to promote entrepreneurship among young people. self-employment should become a way of finding work. another important issue is to create incentives for entrepreneurs who offer training to less qualified people. it is also important to remember that the way to grow companies fast is through innovation and new technologies. smes that use ict, for example, grow several times faster than those that do not. i supported the resolution because it also stresses the importance of effectively informing entrepreneurs about development and financing opportunities in the internal market. there are already many measures in place, but companies are often unaware of them and therefore cannot take advantage of them. entrepreneurship is so important for economic development that it should be promoted, for example, by introducing an entrepreneurship day to commemorate entrepreneurial successes.
mr. chairman, please! the proposals for the unification of defence policy express a desire to interfere with the internal competences of the member states. the attempts to use the financial and military potential of individual countries to implement community military initiatives are of particular concern. almost all eu countries undertake such cooperation as part of their membership of nato. the development of eu strategies, which are essentially duplicating nato's competences, seems pointless and, moreover, dangerous. such actions may in the long run result in a split within that organization. also for economic reasons, a policy of deepening the alliance's ties should be pursued, rather than planning, establishing and maintaining alternative institutions, such as the eu operation command. member states have a long experience in joint allied operations and military missions. that's why i'm against strategic change.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the report because in my opinion the european union as an area which is perceived by the whole world as peaceful has to be able, in the long-term, to provide peace for its citizens. we are living in complicated times. in various parts of the globe new conflicts are erupting which force us to react quickly. if we add to it the possibility of a situation of crisis inside the eu we see how necessary smooth, well-trained and well-equipped services are to bringing help. ms koppa notes this in her report. furthermore, i am convinced that enhancing the role of the common security and defence policy will allow us, in a more efficient way, especially financially to utilize the potential of the member states in their efforts to keep peace in europe and the world. i also support negotiations. we should strive to resolve as many conflicts as possible in a peaceful way. it has to be our priority to avoid bloodshed. the report then, in a wider sense, shows us how significant the issues of security and defence are, and i hope it will be a milestone in the realisation of the lisbon treaty’s provisions.
in writing. − the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy presented here is primarily a document aimed at extending the eu's military structure. given that the eu's battle groups have never taken any action, i wonder what the point of funding this institution is. the protection and safety of eu citizens is undoubtedly paramount, especially in the event of a threat, natural disaster or crisis, but the common security policy, the response to regional crises and the security of the eu's internal borders should be given priority over the pursuit of peace and stability in the world. eu assistance missions should be primarily human rights, anti-discrimination and peaceful. turning the eu into a military entity is contrary to the basic idea of peaceful conflict resolution and to the main objectives of democracy, peace and prosperity, among others. i also oppose the creation of a fund for military missions financed from the budgets of the member states and the eu budget.
mr. chairman, please! defence should remain the responsibility of the member states. these important objectives are pursued by the north atlantic treaty organisation. in the meantime, an attempt is being made to push through another resolution which would increase the powers of the european institutions in this area. it is true that the defence industry is of great importance for innovation and growth and generates a significant number of jobs, but even for this reason, it is not necessary to favour only the leading private companies. for example, in my country - poland - the vast majority of industry companies and research institutions are state-owned. does brussels intend to withdraw support from them, while contributing to the possible reduction in employment? the consolidation of the arms industry must not be seen as a means of favouring the position of firms from the more developed countries at the expense of the poorer ones. it has to be sustainable.
in writing. − member states, each individually, are independent in shaping their own defence strategy. therefore, there are currently 28 separate and inconsistent defence industrial development (modernization) strategies in the union. due to the economic crisis, budgetary constraints affect this industry as well. it is clear that any type of harmonisation can unlock positive development synergies while minimising costs. the important tasks of cooperation include the standardisation and unification of equipment and ammunition, cyber security and the defence of european air and space space. there is a rule: if you want to live in peace, you must organize yourself, but i add: organize yourself based on the latest scientific and technological advances. europe needs an appropriate institute for defence and security, for example in the framework of the joint research centre. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the eu, including the eu's external borders. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the crisis we are still experiencing has brought about a major change in the eu labour market. in many member states, unemployment and the number of people at risk of poverty have increased sharply. the problems of finding a job that is adequate to their expectations are faced by virtually all social groups. different problems are encountered in each member state, but many require intervention at eu level. in this context, i am pleased that the european commission has published a communication on the social dimension of economic and monetary union. as the european parliament, we have repeatedly stressed the need for eu policy to take account of the social costs of tackling the crisis. i am convinced that the development of common indicators to monitor the implementation of the social and employment policy objectives of the europe 2020 strategy will allow a better diagnosis of the situation in europe and the identification of serious problems at the stage of their emergence. this will in turn make more relevant recommendations for the future of the european semester. the resolution we are voting on today is another step in highlighting the interdependence between employment and social policy issues and economic and monetary issues.
in writing. - unfortunately, in the current economic situation, clear instruments, targets and indicators are needed, so i do not agree that social solidarity will be enough to change the current economic situation. given the high level of unemployment across the eu, especially among young people, and the increase in social inequalities and poverty, concrete action is needed. the report presented is unclear, incomprehensible and does not present any new solutions to improve the current state of the economy of both poland and other eu countries. too much space is devoted to promises, forgetting the concrete. the institutional and formal aspect is also crucial. will greater integration lead to a decrease in unemployment? i don't think you are.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. some say that bangladesh, despite the efforts of the international community, is a ticking time bomb, that something worse can happen every day. that's why we're linking human rights issues with the upcoming election. that is why today we call on the government in bangladesh to firstly put a real emphasis on dialogue between political forces and intercultural dialogue, and secondly to ensure the security of minorities. we are very concerned about the attacks on christians, on hindus. they mark a certain regression in bangladesh's development, despite the fact that it is a country that has recently moved closer to the european union, for example, economically. that's why we insist on free and fair elections. the european union should not hesitate to monitor the political situation in the context of the preparations for the election campaign, in the context of the ability of individual forces to participate in the elections and possibly the peaceful transfer of power.
152 soldiers were sentenced to death for the 2009 mutiny. this has been met with the strongest indignation from the un commissioner for human rights. we should react the same way. we need to put pressure on the release of independent activists or arrested opposition members. as a member of the european parliament, i would first of all like to call on the government of bangladesh to end the use of the death penalty in all cases and circumstances, starting with a moratorium. secondly, i express my deep hope that the parties to the conflict will manage to stabilise the situation and refrain from acts of violence, allowing for open, transparent and peaceful elections, which could be the first step towards stabilising this relatively young democracy.
bangladesh has been a frequent focus of our human rights debates recently. it is sad that despite the continuous appeals of the world public opinion and international organizations, the civilian population there lives in constant fear. endless demonstrations demanding the resignation of the current government, ethnic and religious riots, attacks on members of the hindu community as well as attacks on journalists and arrests of human rights defenders are the grim reality of bangladesh. can we trust the local authorities' assurances that they will not use the army again to win another national election? the european parliament should today send a clear signal that all countries, including bangladesh, must protect human rights.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the situation in qatar is not difficult, the situation of workers, immigrants who came there for big investments, is not difficult it is terrible and it is unacceptable. we cannot stand by and watch this happen, and not react to a situation where people are being exploited like they were in the 19th century. that is why our group has also prepared a draft resolution on this matter. i would like to point out that we are of course critical of this situation, but as the ppe group we believe that the resolution we have proposed is better, more balanced, more moderate, and that is why i would like to inform you that we will vote in favour of our draft resolution.
mr. chairman, please! qatar is home to nearly 1.5 million immigrants, mostly from asian countries, who make up about 90 percent of the workforce. this number is expected to increase by another 500,000 in preparation for the 2022 fifa world cup. in this context, reports of flagrant violations of workers' rights in qatar are also worrying. the qataris have a system of "kefalas" in which an employee cannot quit his job or leave the country without the prior permission of his employer. immigrants are stripped of their passports, blocked from returning to their homelands, exploited and forced into slave labor. the people of qatar are the richest society in the world. it's about $90,000 per person. it is unheard of that such a country does not respect international standards, including norms and working hours, does not provide decent living conditions for its employees, does not allow the existence of trade unions or labor agencies to control the working conditions of employees. qatar, a signatory to the 1998 convention on the prohibition of forced labour, has not yet ratified it. the world labor organization estimates that about 400 workers die there each year as a result of poor working conditions.
mr. chairman, please! almost 90% of qatar's workforce is made up of immigrants. as qatar prepares for the 2022 world cup, it is expected to hire an additional half million workers to build roads, hotels and stadiums. immigrants work in disastrous conditions, human rights, labour rights and civil liberties are violated. the qatari authorities are accused of torture, violations of women's rights and restrictions on freedom of expression. i appeal to the qatari authorities to treat immigrants with dignity! i call for reforms and effective implementation of labour law, including the international convention banning the use of forced labour! the adoption and implementation of the law on domestic workers is urgently needed. the kafala system, which is a form of modern slavery, is unacceptable because it makes the worker completely dependent on the employer. i also ask the world football federation, the organiser of the world cup, and the european companies involved in its preparation to monitor compliance with international labour standards in qatar.
on behalf of the ecr group. it may seem to some that these are two particular and non-essential issues, but i think that when we talk about human rights, it is a clear signal from our side, also for every person and citizen of every country and in every circumstance. therefore, when someone violates human rights, when national laws are violated, and especially when the rules on legal relations between states are violated, we should explicitly defend - in this case, the defence of the citizen of hungary and the defence of the citizen of croatia. and one last thing: if we are serious about the future development of the european external action service, if we are serious about citizens of the union taking the european institutions seriously, then such situations are the perfect test for the european external action service to show that we can be effective and force our partners, with whom we have various ties - and above all diplomatic ties - to take appropriate action.
in writing. the european parliament, in its resolution of 15 february, expressed its deep concern at the situation in bolivia, where two eu citizens, előd tóásó and mario tadić, were unlawfully detained. those arrested are denied access to a lawyer, a translator, contact with their families, proper medical care. they were also tortured, in violation of all international standards. in doing so, the bolivian authorities have violated not only the rules of criminal procedure, including those relating to temporary detention without charge, but also fundamental international human rights standards. i will always stress that the european parliament has a duty to respond to situations of selective action by the judiciary. the example of the citizens of hungary and croatia shows that there are still situations in the world where the independence and impartiality of the courts should be questioned. the violation of the presumption of innocence and the right to a fair trial that the bolivian courts have committed against our citizens cannot go unchallenged. this matter must be monitored and any abuses must be met with immediate response. the bolivian authorities should ensure that european citizens detained are subject to a fair and independent trial with respect for fundamental rights. i would also like to draw the attention of the relevant international institutions and organisations to this issue and call for increased efforts to resolve the matter in accordance with the law.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the current common fisheries policy has been met with general criticism from all fisheries communities and a number of environmental organisations. the effects of the directive were felt most strongly by fishermen, and they were associated with excessive restrictions. the new fisheries policy must give the entire fishing industry a chance to develop. it is not perfect, but it does remove the previous constraints, which were often deeply irrational and at odds with the nature of the fishing industry. the key issue that the new policy introduces is the promotion of the fishermen's profession. this is a fundamental value for the future and development of the industry. the second element is to support the development of small-scale fisheries, which are the basis for the future shape of fishing in europe. the report adopted is also an appeal to fishermen not to abandon their fishing profession.
mr. chairman, please! we are in the final stage of the legislative procedure which will ultimately lead to the reform of the common fisheries policy. i am pleased with the solutions that have been developed, because they show that the european union is at the forefront of sustainable development, environmental protection and the needs of society. we have managed to develop solutions that guarantee the restoration of fish stocks as early as 2015. we also reached a compromise on rejections and introduced a regionalisation mechanism to speed up the adaptation of the situation to the provisions of the regulation. we have managed to introduce rules on the maintenance of fishing capacity in individual member states and to regulate the issue of fishing in third countries and the impact of respect for human rights on the sustainability of agreements. the compromise also concerns access criteria, i.e. the rules governing the allocation of fishing opportunities. i believe that the solutions that have been worked out are optimal and deserve our approval and our vote on the draft regulation.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the members of parliament for their comments. i would also like to thank parliament for its good cooperation, because we have done this together: the council, parliament and the commission. we at the commission needed your thoughts and interventions throughout the whole procedure in order to achieve this result. this is a good result because it is a step towards sustainability, regionalisation, and a better external aspect of the policy. as we have already mentioned, one way or another we are going to give more attention not only to our fishermen and our industry, but also to our seas and oceans. so i think this is a good reform after all. it is also an important moment for the three institutions, as it is the first time since the lisbon treaty that parliament has proved that it can work as a co-legislator with us at the commission and with the council in order to achieve a good compromise, a good product. so i would like to thank you all. for the future, i recognise and acknowledge what almost all of you have already said, namely that we have a lot of work to do: we have the principles but now it is time for implementation, which will be much more difficult. i am already working with the commission’s services in order to come forward with new decisions about the details – as we have already said, details are very important. i also hope that we will have some good results in our discussions. we have made progress with regard to the long-term management plans, which i know are of great interest to this body. i think that we have to focus on implementation next year and i hope that, until the end of my mandate, we will be in a good position to be able to implement the new fisheries policy, as requested by this body.
in writing. the fisheries sector has been waiting for this reform for a very long time. until now, it has struggled with inefficiency, illegal fishing and arbitrariness. it was devastating to the environment and to fish stocks in europe and the world. the sector is now set to benefit from new regulations that aim to restore sustainable fishing and put an end to uneconomic practices. it is also an opportunity to create many new jobs in coastal areas and to develop them further. however, the most important problem to be solved is overfishing in european waters. the new rules will help to restore fish stocks by means of 'fishing quotas'. equally important will be the elimination of discards, with all fish caught counting towards the quota. this is very important in view of the many endangered fish species and the decline in the diversity of the aquatic ecosystem. the positive aspect is that the policy is flexible, allowing many specific issues closely linked to the specificity of the region to be adapted to its general objectives. it is also pleasing to note that the new document is to be implemented as from the beginning of next year.
in writing. the agreement on the common fisheries policy is intended to resolve very important issues. overfishing must be completely eliminated by 2015 to allow fish stocks to recover. the objective should be to achieve a survival rate of the herd. the agreement on the prohibition of excessive discards is also a good step in this direction. excess of wasted fish should be eliminated. in order to avoid the problem of excessive fishing capacity in the future, member states should be obliged to carry out an annual analysis of the fishing capacity of their fleets in accordance with the criteria set by the european commission. the decentralisation of decision-making is also a very important point in the agreement. certain disputes concerning technical rules in specific maritime regions should be resolved by the parties concerned rather than centrally in brussels. this will allow for faster implementation of those elements of the eu environmental directives that are related to fisheries. member states will have to allocate fishing opportunities between fishermen in an objective manner. the criteria for the allocation of responsibilities should include environmental, social and economic criteria. this will help to increase employment and reduce environmental degradation. i hope that the new common fisheries policy will help to stabilise the sector.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. mr arsenis's words surprised us as a group, because we have been working together to find solutions and as he mentioned several public hearings have been prepared to find a common solution. today we are completely surprised by these words and we can say that just as we negotiated the common fisheries policy, the same agreements and the same process are now missing. we therefore take the position that we cannot accept this proposal and will continue to push for the solutions that have been adopted by our group.
mr. chairman, please! deep-sea fishing, above 400 m, can certainly be a threat to the environment. we're aware of the number of species that live in the deep, and we're also aware of how limited our knowledge of the ocean floor is. i therefore appreciate the efforts made to make the proposed project a compromise between environmentalists and fishermen. the draft includes provisions to ensure that the granting of fishing licences is based on scientific analysis, while at the same time requiring fishermen to record and report on deep-sea species. member states will be responsible for assessing the impact of fishing on the state of the marine ecosystem before renewing the authorisation for further fishing. all of this ensures that the principle of sustainable development is being implemented. i would like to add that i am pleased that the market for fishing rights has not been frozen. the possibility of switching allowances will be an opportunity for many fishermen to use their boats and crew more efficiently. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his cooperation and for having taken into account the polish requests for the exchange of fishing opportunities between member states.
on behalf of the ecr group. - madam president! - i have to go. the european union's agreement with the kingdom of morocco, after many years of negotiations, has a chance of being accepted. this is particularly important in the context of increasing fishing areas with mutual benefits and the sustainable exploitation of natural resources. this agreement is of great importance to both the european union and morocco as a result of their mutual cooperation. thanks to a multi-year negotiation period by the european commission, this agreement guarantees respect for human rights and safeguards economic benefits in a way that is appropriate for all ethnic groups in morocco. the primary objective of the european union, subject to the above conditions, should be to respect the territorial, economic and social integrity of morocco and to focus on economic matters in the fisheries sector. it is a very important and necessary agreement, which i unequivocally support.
madam president! i realize there's some controversy surrounding the new protocol. i have heard many opinions which present this case as a choice between the interests of european fisheries and the struggle for freedom of the people of western sahara. i think that this black and white presentation of such a delicate issue is going too far. i think the fisheries committee's proposal is a sensible one. it takes into account the benefits and consequences for the people of western sahara, while taking into account the moderate legal framework. this has enabled us to find a compromise between the fisheries interests in question and the rule of law that we demand from morocco. the agreement will bring economic benefits while maintaining appropriate fishing standards and environmental consideration. i would like to conclude by saying that i have heard some people say that the agreement with morocco is in breach of international law, but it seems to me that if the matter is not resolved by the un, the agreement should be concluded as it stands.
member of the commission. − mr president, a lot of members of parliament have underlined the crucial importance of member state involvement in the implementation of their national strategies. this is absolutely our number one priority. that is clear. social inclusion is the responsibility of the member states. the fact that today the council adopted by unanimity the first european legal instrument for roma inclusion is a very strong sign that the willingness is there, so there has been a change. i would like to underline that a lot of you perhaps could not even imagine such a fact four years ago when we started working on a european framework on roma inclusion. the commission is there to guide member states in implementing their national strategies. they need to go local, they need to make full use of european funds, they need to include roma ngos and implement all the other good proposals we have already mentioned. every year the commission produces a report to measure progress in each and every member state. this is our monitoring mechanism. we do more than this. we give recommendations in the country-specific recommendations to the member states most concerned. all of us would like to see fast progress, so i will work with you and the commission will work with you. i hope that we will have the time to see this progress throughout next year. i would also like to refer to the comments i have heard from some of you. many of you have referred to anti-gypsy demonstrations and we have heard intolerable words in this house again this evening. the commission would like to once again underline that it strongly condemns all manifestations of racism, xenophobia and intolerance. we are following the situation very closely in all member states and we have mobilised all the tools available to make it better – expertise and financial and legal instruments. equal access to education is a known problem in some member states. discrimination is prohibited in the european union. all member states have transposed into national law the racial equality directive and they have to ensure that this is properly applied. the commission will report on the application of the directive before the end of the year. one last comment. i would like to underline that free movement is a pillar of european rights and the commission, as a guardian of the treaty, is going to monitor in the best way how article 6 of the treaty is implemented. european citizens can move freely and of course we have to respect the right limits that are there. effective implementation of the free movement directive is necessary. this is the job of the commission and this is also the job of the member states. the commission will give member states a helping hand. last week we adopted a five-point action plan to help member states and in particular local authorities to respond to the challenges that free movement may pose in future in order for member states to respect their authorities but, at the same time, implement the treaty and its approaches.
in writing. – the situation of roma women is far worse compared to that of men. this is partially due to patriarchal and sexist traditions that prevent women from exercising their freedom of choice on issues concerning their lives. as a result, most roma women live in greater poverty then men. they face severe exclusion in the field of employment and are hampered by limited education opportunities, inadequate housing, poor healthcare, general marginalisation and discrimination by majority communities. while national reports on implementing the eu framework for national roma integration strategies (nirs) still fail to take account of the situation of roma women, the current report offers important recommendations to remedy these issues. the report stresses the need for member states to allocate adequate funds to nirs and further develop plans to provide roma women with the means to facilitate their access to education, employment, housing, and healthcare. the report further calls on member states and the commission to strengthen gender mainstreaming, conduct gender impact assessments, and involve roma and womenʼs ngos in the process. adopting this report is an important step towards helping to improve the social inclusion and integration of the roma, in particular of roma girls and women.
as we sit in this room, in kiev, the militia is storming the maidan, clearing the streets of protesters. and today, when the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, was talking about having a dialogue, about using dialogue, not force. and for these words of support from the european parliament, i was asked, especially by ukrainian students in krakow, to bring a warm thank you. in krakow, demonstrations are taking place in support of ukraine against the decision of yanukovych and for the european course, against the use of force and for dialogue. appeal for continued solidarity and extension of visas for ukrainian students studying in the european union. there are demonstrations in various european cities. let us remember that ukraine is very close, that ukraine is a european country, and its citizens are europeans, and they need our solidarity today, our support for democracy and the fight for europe. we must spare no effort today to support these aspirations of ukraine.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. first of all, i would like to thank very warmly the rapporteurs and the counter-rapporteurs from both committees, namely the committee on legal affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, for the really excellent cooperation they have shown in the negotiations on the justice programme. i am very pleased that the stockholm programme's objectives of facilitating access to justice and judicial cooperation in civil, commercial and criminal matters have been well reflected in the next multiannual financial framework. this is a very important signal, both for judicial staff and above all for the citizens of the european union. although the budget for this programme has unfortunately been reduced, i welcome the fact that expenditure on training for judicial staff in the member states has been properly taken into account in the justice programme. we have repeatedly stressed in the legal affairs committee of this parliament that there is no dynamic economy without clear, transparent, legible and predictable legal standards, and that a well-functioning judiciary is a guarantee of stable development. i therefore consider it absolutely essential to organise training in a streamlined manner both in terms of knowledge of eu law and in terms of a comparative approach to the legislation of different member states within a given area of law. the programme also places emphasis on language training, taking into account the specificities of the discipline, which seems to be a sine qua non for the success and development of training for judicial staff. this will allow for the building of a common legal culture and the more effective application of the law by courts in all member states. we must remember that the national court and judge are the eu court and judge, and the national law is already largely eu law.
mr. chairman, please! it is good that the functioning of the judiciary is the subject of cooperation at union level. this is necessary for many reasons, but i am afraid that this cooperation will be ideologized, dominated by a specific approach to equality based on a controversial gender ideology or the fight against violence against children, which, in my observation, is often distorted and leads to abuse, to state violence, to the hasty removal of children from their natural families. i know of many such cases in different member states. in the fight against homophobia, which has become a fashion, there are decisions that violate freedom of speech or freedom of expression. and there is little talk of equal access to justice because of poverty, which is very often a real barrier for eu citizens. that's why i'm calling for less ideologization in the justice system!
mr. chairman, please! the justice programme proposed by the commission for the period 2014-2020 aims to create a european area of justice by promoting cooperation in civil and criminal matters, the effective and consistent application of union law and facilitating access to justice. in practice, the justice programme is intended to replace the three existing programmes, allowing for a more comprehensive approach to the financing of the justice area. in order to achieve the objectives of the programme, it must be implemented effectively, with due respect for sound financial management and full access to potential applicants. to this end, the commission must ensure transparency in all aspects of the procedure for collecting and analysing applications, while minimising procedural and administrative burdens. in addition, it will also be necessary to monitor the programme systematically both for its effectiveness and for compliance with the principles of equality and non-discrimination in accordance with articles 8 and 10 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i hope that this tool will contribute to improving cross-border cooperation in the area of access to justice.
in writing. the eu civil protection mechanism is a highly valuable instrument which should be seen primarily as an expression of solidarity of the countries and societies of europe with the population affected by natural or man-made disasters. it is worth noting that this mechanism is not limited to the protection of people, but also concerns the environment and cultural heritage. emergencies prove more than the need for solidarity and to meet the needs of people whose lives and property are at risk. in such situations, swift and coordinated action is needed to minimise losses. i am pleased that the eu civil protection mechanism in its new form will be able to invest in improving the efficiency of disaster response. the humanitarian crisis caused by typhoon haiyan in the philippines in november this year has demonstrated the importance of coordinating disaster response and recovery and development. the new mechanism has the potential to combine these two actions so that rapid, emergency aid to the population is followed by real reconstruction, providing a sense of security and support, while reducing the risks of disruption, the risk of the spread of infectious diseases or the slowdown of economic growth. if the eu is to be seen in the world as a real partner and promoter of prosperity, it should rely on such mechanisms to strengthen its positive image.
in writing. − i support the proposed draft programme 'justice' for the years 2014-2020. it will replace the 'civil justice' and 'criminal justice' programmes and the 'drug prevention and information' programmes. it provides for the application of union law in the framework of judicial cooperation in civil and criminal matters. it aims to facilitate citizens' access to justice and to implement drug policy to reduce the demand for and supply of drugs. the project provides for the participation of judicial staff in various types of training and seminars. in addition, the programme shall include the undertaking of analytical activities such as the collection of statistics, educational materials, the conduct of research and training workshops. i believe that the 'justice' programme for 2014-2020 will significantly improve the functioning of justice and its coordination in the different member states, especially in cases of cross-border judicial proceedings.
in writing. − a transparent legal environment and an efficient judiciary are the key to the stable development of the european economy. at present, most of the rules in the legal systems of the individual eu member states are rules adopted at eu level. this is why it is so important to work towards the creation of a european area of justice and the building of a common legal culture in all eu member states. i support the objectives of the new eu 'justice' programme for 2014-2020, which will strengthen judicial cooperation in commercial, civil and criminal matters and facilitate citizens' access to justice in the new financial perspective. qualified judicial staff play a key role in achieving these objectives and i therefore welcome the fact that the programme includes expenditure on training judicial staff in the european union countries - not only judges and prosecutors, but also other persons and institutions involved in the justice system: public administrations, academic centres, private and public organisations and individuals responsible for judicial training.
in writing. − the annual work programmes forming part of the 'civil justice' and 'criminal justice' programmes, which set out the commission's policy priorities for the coming year, are published on the website of the european commission's dg justice, together with the calls for proposals and all the information necessary for their submission. both programmes, namely 'civil justice' and 'criminal justice', will end in 2013. a new programme covering civil and criminal justice for the period 2014-2020 is currently being developed. more information on this can be found here. have you ever received information about alleged abuse, corruption or other illegal activities involving eu budget funds? please report such suspicions to the european anti-fraud office (olaf) as soon as possible. the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is responsible for protecting the financial interests of the european union by combating fraud affecting the eu budget, corruption and any other illegal activities, including those relating to the european institutions themselves. the european anti-fraud office shall act independently of the commission.
in writing. − the republic of moldova is a direct neighbour of the european union, a country formally associated with it. already in the past financial perspective, the country could apply for funds from operational programmes targeting this area of europe. it is therefore very pleased to adopt this report, which will improve cooperation with the union in many respects. romania has been moldova's largest trading partner after russia. trade between these countries is facilitated by the linguistic community. however, until now it has been unilateral, which has meant a negative balance for moldova. the elimination of all customs duties on industrial products and the improvement of access to the union market for agricultural products will ensure the uninterrupted flow of goods until the successful completion of procedures in the world trade organisation. the agreement will have positive effects both economically and socially. in addition to the potential for trade development, moldova has a chance to deepen its integration with the union.
in writing. − for goods originating in moldova, the customs duties and the rules applicable to goods with a specific combined nomenclature (cn) code should be determined using the isztar 2 tariff browser. the amended council regulation (ec) no 55/2008 constitutes an autonomous preferential arrangement applied unilaterally by the community in trade with moldova and will apply until 31 december 2015. as regards preferential rules of origin and administrative cooperation, the provisions of articles 66, 98 to 123 and annexes 14, 15, 21 and 22 to commission regulation (eec) no 2454/93 of 2 july 1993 (implementing regulation to the community customs code) shall apply. the cumulation of origin between the two countries is applied in only one direction, i.e. exports from moldova to the european union. moldova's path to the european union has not received as much media and political attention as the decision of ukrainian elites led by president viktor yanukovych. both countries as former soviet republics lie within the kremlin's broad sphere of influence, which is at least concerned with their neutrality. in both countries, there are endless discussions between those who are in favour of joining the union and those who are against. nevertheless, chisinau's 'european' ambitions are now more favourable than those of kiev.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and morocco. the agreement will allow european union countries to fish in the waters of the kingdom of morocco. this agreement is the result of the renegotiation by the european commission following the expiry of the current protocol on 27 february 2011. i'm convinced that the negotiated settlement is mutually beneficial. it will allow an increase of one third in the current catches of fish, while reducing the cost of access to moroccan territorial waters. in addition, the parties undertook in the protocol to respect democratic principles, to respect human rights and to fish in accordance with the applicable strict sustainable exploitation standards. i therefore strongly believe that the adoption of this agreement will bring tangible economic, social and environmental benefits to both parties.
in writing. − the european commission, acting on a mandate from the council, has opened negotiations with the kingdom of morocco to renew the protocol to the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco. as a result of those negotiations, a new protocol was initialled by the negotiators on 24 july 2013. the new protocol shall cover a period of four years from the date of its entry into force. the main objective of the protocol is to make available to european union vessels fishing opportunities in the waters of the kingdom of morocco, within the limits of the available surplus. the commission relied, inter alia, on the results of an ex-post evaluation carried out by external experts. the overall objective is to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the kingdom of morocco and to establish a framework for a partnership for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the moroccan fishing zone, which is in the interest of both parties.
in writing. - the european parliament, in its concern for the economic development of the european community, must also take into account the protection of the safety of workers. we are committed to increasing the overall number of jobs in the economies of the member states, and to ensuring a high level of safety at work and the introduction of mechanisms and legal solutions to guarantee this, which are valid throughout the european union. the international labour organisation's convention on the use of chemical substances and preparations establishes basic regulations and recommendations to protect workers from the adverse effects of chemicals on their safety and health. once adopted, all workers, regardless of where they work, will have the same chance of protection against hazards. i therefore call on the commission to encourage the member states to ratify the convention as soon as possible in the interests of workers' safety.
in writing. − i believe that the worker should be aware of the risks to which he is exposed when working with a dangerous substance (minimum sections 2 and 4 of the safety data sheet). from the employer's point of view, it is certainly safer to read the hazards to have full confirmation of the knowledge. that's why we have a full-card reading. the second and most important question is: why do i need a report card? the emergency services have access to these cards, right? of course it is, but are you going to wait 20 minutes for the doctor to come in, look at the chart, and say that you should wash your eye with water?! with the chart and section 4 we could do it ourselves, assisting a colleague. but we need to be sure, and that information is on the chart. that is why i recommend that the full version of the information sheet be read by the employees, and we use something like extracts from these cards (from these practical points of the card) at our workplaces, so that we can help the person as quickly as possible. to this end, staff are also trained in the principles of pre-medical first aid.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the protocol against illicit manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms, their parts and components and ammunition, supplementing the united nations convention against transnational organized crime. i undertook such a decision because it is my responsibility to protect eu citizens against illegal firearms. the protocol provides tools to fight illegal manufacturing of and trafficking in firearms. as a part of the eu the member states must implemented the protocol which imposes on them the obligation of criminalising actions included in the protocol and any attempts to commit or facilitate such an offence. in addition, the protocol gives the member states the possibility to confiscate or seize the illegal firearms. therefore, state parties must ensure that firearms will be marked at every stage of production or transfer. i agree with the rapporteur that we should encourage the eu members to cooperate. all enumerated elements convinced me that it is worth supporting this protocol. not only because it is necessary for our people, but also because it provides appropriate instruments to fight the problem.
in writing. - in the last few years, there have been a number of high-profile and tragic armed attacks, particularly in countries such as norway, belgium, finland, france and italy. this is a problem in all countries, and across the eu, more than a thousand people are killed by firearms each year, and it is not known what happens to the half a million firearms that are reported lost or stolen in the eu. the european commission also published today the results of a eurobarometer survey, which showed that 60% of europeans do indeed think that the level of firearm crime is likely to increase over the next five years. the survey also shows that overall 55% of europeans are in favour of stricter rules on who can own, sell or buy guns. every week we hear about more gun violence. meanwhile, the debate on the illegal use of and trade in weapons in europe is alarmingly tense. there's often a more prominent american debate about how to combat this phenomenon, even though we should be focusing on our own problem. europe has a lot to do to ensure that guns, rifles and weapons of war do not fall into the hands of criminals', said cecilia malmström, eu home affairs commissioner.
in writing. − the illicit manufacture and trafficking of arms remains a real threat, benefiting terrorists and criminal groups. according to europol data, in 2013, it was the main source of income for 39 large criminal groups in 18 european union countries. of course, this is not the complete data, but only information on the groups identified, which means that the scale of these crimes is actually even larger. this procedure can be effectively combated only if the member states cooperate with each other, since it is international in nature. member states must act more efficiently and effectively than criminal networks. the main areas of this cooperation should include the maintenance of registers, the marking of firearms, their deactivation or the rules for the issuing of licences, export, import and transit authorisations and the strengthening of controls in these areas. it is appropriate for the eu to decide on these matters, as this would impose the same basic obligations on all member states and would make the illegal trade in firearms in europe more difficult.
in writing. - explanation of vote - agreement between the eu and china in the form of an exchange of letters. the european union entered into negotiations with wto members with negotiating rights on concessional letters after the accession of bulgaria and romania in 2007 to ensure that the customs union is compatible with wto obligations. negotiations with wto members were aimed at agreeing a mutually satisfactory countervailing duty compensation for the increase in related duties and the resulting significant losses. the compensation issues covered by the agreements concern, first, the compensation of the higher rates and, second, the addition of a pre-accession tariff quota erga omnes for bulgaria and romania (not allocated to a particular country but open to the whole world). following the authorisation by the council to the commission to open negotiations with the countries entitled to compensation, a draft agreement in the form of an exchange of letters with china was concluded. the compensation agreement mainly concerns agricultural products, i.e. garlic, mushrooms, chocolate, confectionery and tea. the agreement will be implemented on the basis of an implementing regulation to be adopted by the commission. the eu has already concluded similar compensation agreements with australia, new zealand, argentina and the usa. i fully support the conclusion of an agreement on concessional lists for china so that the eu can ensure that the customs union is in line with its wto obligations following the accession of bulgaria and romania to the eu, while ensuring that the people's republic of china remains our reliable trading partner.
in writing. - with the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania, the european union has enlarged the customs union. therefore, in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto) (article xxiv (6) of gatt), the european union was obliged to enter into negotiations with wto members having negotiating rights on concessional lists of any of the acceding countries in order to agree on a countervailing duty. such compensation is due where the adoption of the eu external tariff system results in an increase in rates above the level to which the acceding country concerned has committed itself under the wto, taking into account the reductions in duties in the same tariff heading made by other partners of the customs union at the time of its establishment. on 29 january 2007, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations under article xxiv:6 of the gatt 1994. the commission has therefore been negotiating with the wto members with negotiating rights the withdrawal of individual concessions in view of the withdrawal of the concession letters of the republic of bulgaria and romania in view of their accession to the european union. negotiations with the people's republic of china resulted in a draft agreement in the form of an exchange of letters, initialled on 31 may 2012.
in writing. - once again in this term, we are dealing with the dispute between the european union and the united states over the import of growth hormone-free beef. i am also once again in favour of a solution that will bring both commercial and political benefits to both sides. the united states lifted sanctions on european agricultural products in exchange for a duty-free tariff quota on beef from non-growth hormone-treated animals. following the suspension of the sanctions and the increase of the quota, it was planned to resolve the issue definitively in the world trade organisation, but the mou on the issue ceased to apply on 1 august 2013. it is therefore proposed to extend the current terms by two years in order to negotiate the final terms of the contract by august 2015. in the current negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, the disruption caused by the expiry of the beef arrangement could disrupt the process of economic integration with the united states, and i therefore believe that the proposal is a reasonable proposal which will give us time to reach a final, favourable solution.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund aims to support growth and jobs in europe by channelling eu investment towards the implementation of the eu strategy for growth and jobs. the draft regulations put forward indicate that the future cohesion policy will focus on a smaller number of investment priorities, which will form the basis of the new partnership agreements concluded between the member states and the european commission. these agreements will set clear objectives and allow a financial reserve to be set aside to reward those regions best placed to achieve them. the impact of the european funds will also be enhanced by simplifying and harmonising the rules for the individual funds, including in the area of rural development and maritime and fisheries policy. a single set of rules will be established for the five different funds. a more integrated approach will ensure that the different funds serve coherent objectives and mutually reinforce their impact.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on denmark's application for aid from the egf to the danish company vestas, active in the wind energy sector. i agree with the danish government's argument that the eu wind turbine industry has been seriously affected by the changes in the global trade patterns which have led to a significant decrease in the union's market share and that production is gradually moving away from the eu. i also believe that the funds mobilised by this fund, by supporting a coordinated package of personalised services and active employment actions, will contribute to the rapid reintegration of workers. in addition, i would like to welcome the agreement reached in the council to re-introduce a crisis-related triggering criterion in the egf regulation for the period 2014-2020, which allows financial assistance to be granted also to workers made redundant as a result of the current financial and economic crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the negotiation of the eu-canada strategic partnership agreement. historically, political and economic cooperation between the two parties has been ongoing since 1976, when the framework agreement was signed. the conclusion of a strategic partnership convention would be an important step towards closer political, economic and cultural relations. from an economic point of view, the opening of markets is an opportunity to create transatlantic trade cooperation and with it a number of benefits for citizens, including new jobs. an important element of the agreement is also to ensure that all community citizens can travel freely to canada without requiring a visa. the negotiations on the agreement are taking place almost simultaneously with the negotiations on the conclusion of the eu-canada ceta trade agreement. i think that the signing of these two complementary agreements in the near future will bring a number of additional benefits to the relations between the two parties.
in writing. - explanation of vote - negotiations on the strategic partnership agreement between the eu and canada. at its meeting in strasbourg on 9 and 12 december, the european parliament voted on a draft resolution containing recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiation of a strategic partnership agreement between the eu and canada. it is also important to note that the eu has a historic, close relationship with canada, based on shared interests and values, which formally dates back to 1976, when the eu signed the first framework agreement with canada, a member of the oecd. given canada's long-standing parliamentary democracy, canadians share similar democratic values and principles with europeans. the eu and canada have close relations which could lead to improved cooperation in many areas, including economic, industrial and employment-related areas. the report makes recommendations, in particular, for the signing of an agreement between the eu and canada as soon as possible. the recommendations in the report also highlight the reciprocal conditional and political clauses on human rights and democracy that are included in all eu agreements with third countries. notwithstanding the earlier contributions of the members of the union to this matter, further efforts should be made to bring about the above-mentioned agreement with canada as soon as possible. that is why i am in full support of the european parliament's recommendations.
in writing. - ironically, the controversy surrounding the agreement is that it concerns cheese. canadian producers, most of whom come from french-speaking quebec, will have to compete on the market with, among others, french producers. the links between cheese and politics were long summed up by french president general charles de gaulle, the same man who, during a visit to montreal in 1967, shouted from the balcony of the city hall "long live free quebec!" and fueled separatist tendencies in the province. speaking of france, he asked, "how can you govern a country with 246 varieties of cheese?" canada produces more than 050 types of cheese, according to the department of agriculture. in france, a guide to cheese lists 600 varieties, noting that it is not an exhaustive list. the other side of the agreement also pits canada and france against each other: the opening of the european market to canadian beef exporters is criticized by french cattle farmers. the eu-canada free trade agreement will remove tariffs on almost all goods and services, and canada will open up government procurement contracts to eu companies. according to the european commission, trade between canada and the eu in 2012 was worth €61.6 billion (in goods) and almost €27 billion (in services). the canadian government estimates that the deal will create 80,000 new jobs in the country.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the retail sector generates 11% of the eu's gdp and employs 15% of the workforce. given its importance for the single market, it is fully justified to include it in the highest priority clause. all barriers to free competition, such as often discriminatory tax regulations applied by states, and the various administrative obstacles to business start-up and access to the retail market, should be eliminated. from the consumer's point of view, i fully share the proposals to increase transparency and accessibility of information on products, especially as important as prices or the necessary content of labels. i am glad that the committee has rejected the controversial demands for price fixing, working conditions and wages and has deleted the provision prohibiting sales below cost.
in writing. − the european commission has cited data showing that the global shadow banking sector is worth half of the regulated banking sector. in 2011, it was 51 trillion euros, of which 17.5 trillion euros were for the us, 16.8 trillion euros for the euro area and about 6.8 trillion euros for the uk. we've regulated the banking sector, now we have to deal with the risks that the system of the para-banking institutions creates. it plays an important role in financing the real economy and we need to ensure that it is transparent and that the strengthening of certain financial institutions and markets is not undermined by risks from less regulated sectors
in writing. − the development of the european union's space policy has enormous benefits for economic development. the technologies used in this sector can be applied in many fields apart from information technology and telecommunications also in agriculture and forestry. satellite monitoring of climate change may even help to prevent disasters. the two most important projects we support in the space policy are the copernicus programme (formerly known as the environmental and safety monitoring programme gmes), whose main task is to prevent emergencies, and the galileo programme, which will soon allow us to use our own satellite navigation system, controlled by civil authorities. the benefits to our aviation, logistics, emergency response and energy sectors, for example, will be enormous. according to the european commission, the value of the satellite technology market (currently around eur 125 billion) will almost double by 2020. the development of the space sector is therefore not to be overestimated. with the right investment support and a forward-looking approach to eu space policy, we can significantly boost the competitiveness of our economy and develop the achievements of humanity alongside other leading countries in this field.
in writing. − the establishment of a space policy at european level shows the eu's willingness to take action of strategic importance. this policy aims to exploit europe's space potential. the use of space is becoming increasingly relevant to the needs of the market and industry. the provisions of the treaty of lisbon constitute the legal basis of european space policy. article 189 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union gives the eu broad powers to shape space policy. on the basis of the provisions of this article, in addition to strengthening the partnership with the member states and coordinating the efforts necessary for the exploration and use of outer space, the union shall establish appropriate relations with the european space agency. european space policy is being implemented in close cooperation between the european commission and the european space agency (esa). esa's mission is to harness the skills of member states by engaging them in the development of space technologies and by supporting industrial innovation. esa's activities have been limited to civilian cooperation with space programmes. in fact, most solutions have a dual purpose, and therefore also for safety. today, services, trade, security, defence depend on the use of space and are interconnected.
in writing. − cloud computing is an innovative technology that enables the use of data and applications, upon accessing the internet, anytime and anywhere. this technology has many economic benefits in terms of reducing costs, improving accessibility and increasing productivity. however, ensuring the safety of data privacy and security of the infrastructure used for the cloud is essential for reaching the full potential of this technology. the report offers important recommendations in that direction; it calls on the commission to invest more in strong fixed and mobile communication networks, which are prerequisite to developing cloud infrastructure; it supports a high degree of interoperability and open specifications for cloud computing, as well as increasing competiveness. additionally, the report underlines the importance to provide users with clear information, particularly when it comes to the jurisdiction covering the data stored in these cloud services. finally, the report urges the commission to establish a clear legal framework on copyright content in the cloud, principally regarding licensing regulations. as rapporteur of the opinion on this report on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, i welcome the final text. i am hopeful its adoption will pave the way to creating an eu strategy for cloud computing – based on our own values and principles.
in writing. − in an era of rapid technological change, the digital internal market is crucial for employment, research and development and the other europe 2020 objectives, especially as we grapple with the consequences of the economic crisis. new technological solutions such as cloud computing contribute to lowering the cost of it infrastructure, job creation, labour mobility and improving competitiveness, and should therefore be informed and encouraged to be used primarily by smes and public administrations, which can benefit from increased efficiency and flexibility of services and reduced costs and red tape. however, it is important that the innovative potential of cloud computing ensures adequate protection of personal data of internet users, in particular sensitive data such as health data, and universal and equal access to online services for all citizens.
in writing. - i voted for the adoption of the report on cloud computing because i am in favour of any action that responds to the challenges that technology and the people who use it present. we've been using cloud computing for a relatively short time, and i think the report on this has come at a very good time. it's time to put some things in order. the market for cloud services is developing very dynamically. according to the european commission, in 2014 it will be worth €148.8 billion. this number means that a huge amount of data will be processed virtually, outside of our computer. this is about ensuring that our data is adequately secured and that we have constant access to it. the project is aware of these problems, which must have found my appreciation. i also appreciate the fact that the rapporteur has taken consumer protection issues into account. the fragmented market, the lack of clear rules governing the change of operator, and the multitude of regulations, which the report shows are unclear to 90% of the users surveyed. all of this makes it imperative that we pass the appropriate regulations as soon as possible. i would like to express my satisfaction once again that the european union is responding to emerging phenomena with the aim of protecting users and further developing technology.
in writing. − cloud computing is a type of data processing model based on the rental of services provided by a service provider in the field of: technical infrastructure (e.g. computers, memory, network equipment, networks); software platforms (e.g. databases, identification systems, tools for building ai, start-up modules) and user applications (e.g. financial, personnel, statistical systems). among clouds, we distinguish those that are: private (corporate), which is part of the organization, but at the same time an autonomous service provider; public, which is an external, generally available provider; hybrid, which is a combination of the philosophy of the private and public cloud. the european commission has taken action to facilitate the adoption of the cloud computing model across all sectors of the economy. this can help to reduce ict costs and can also contribute to increased productivity, growth and employment.
in writing. − berec (body of european regulators in electronic communications) was established in 2009 by regulation (ec) no 1211/2009 of the european parliament and of the council of 25 november 2009 establishing a body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec). berec replaced the european regulators group, established by a decision of the european commission in 2002, with the task of developing cooperation and coordination between regulatory authorities and the commission in order to support the development of the internal market for electronic communications networks and services and to strive for a consistent implementation of the provisions of the regulatory framework in all member states.
in writing. - i am in favour of the adoption of the report by mrs ulrike rodust on the common fisheries policy. i believe that the cap as it is today has not met its objectives, and that the union needs a new, reformed policy to manage fisheries resources in a sustainable way. the document in question, which was the result of lengthy negotiations, has a number of positive features. the most important regulation concerns the persistent problem of overfishing. the new rules require that it be eliminated by 2015 and, in specific cases, by 2020 at the latest. the development of a common position on the ban on discards, to be implemented in stages from 2015 to 2019, is also a great success. another regulation concerns the overfishing capacity of the fleet, which member states are obliged to maintain at a level consistent with the available resources and to carry out an annual analysis of the fishing capacity of their fleets. in addition, the new rules provide that member states allocate fishing opportunities among fishermen according to transparent and objective access criteria. in my view, the reform of the common fisheries policy in the form proposed will guarantee the sustainable development of the aquaculture sector, thus ensuring food security. at the same time, it will have the effect of accelerating economic growth, resulting in increased employment for the coastal community.
in writing. − eu agriculture ministers agreed on monday on a fisheries fund for 2014-2020 of around €6.4 billion. it is intended to be a tool for reforming the eu's fisheries policy to combat overfishing. after intensive talks, we reached a compromise agreement on the draft european maritime and fisheries fund and new financial measures for 2014-2020. this is a key decision for the european fisheries sector, because the fund will allow us to reform the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - i am in favour of adopting the reform of the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products. it is an integral part of the common fisheries policy. one of the main objectives of this regulation is to strengthen the role of producer organisations, which should play an even greater role in the fisheries management process. they should be guaranteed adequate funding and have the appropriate tools to monitor the work of their members. i also support the initiative of bringing together producer organisations from different member states, which will guarantee them better competitiveness. it also covers the labelling of products. they will be more readable for consumers by providing information on fishing areas, fish species or the dates of freezing of products. i believe that a common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products is needed in the european union to improve the profitability of the sector, to ensure better sales of these products and to ensure sustainable fishing.
in writing. − the european commission has put forward proposals for the size of deep-sea fishing opportunities in eu and international waters in the north-east atlantic for the years 2013-2014. in line with the scientific advice, the commission proposes to increase the total allowable catches (tacs) for three stocks, to reduce them for 13 stocks and to maintain the tacs at the current level for eight stocks (including zero tacs for six stocks) compared to 2012. the commission proposes to increase the tac for red seabream in waters west of the british isles by 77% in 2013 (up to 4500 tonnes). catches at this level will allow this stock to reach its maximum sustainable yield (msy) by 2015. the commission also proposes to increase the tacs for two stocks of redfish in the western waters (west of scotland and ireland respectively) by 20% and 5%.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i welcomed the extension of the civil protection mechanism to cover all areas of disaster management: prevention, preparedness and response. i consider this to be extremely important, as natural disasters are not limited to the remote philippines, but also occur regularly in central european countries, among others, and threaten the lives of citizens in many eu countries, as this year's floods in the czech republic and germany have shown. the programme implements the lisbon treaty's successive foundations for the protection of the population and is part of a wider policy of 2020 targets to increase the safety of eu citizens, taking into account in particular the risk of natural and man-made disasters. although it is the individual member states that have the primary responsibility for the safety of their citizens, the union has repeatedly shown that the role of coordinator can be beneficial for citizens. that is why i support the draft eu civil protection mechanism and voted in favour of mrs gardini's report.
in writing. - i supported the report on credit agreements relating to residential property. mortgages are the biggest financial burden for many europeans, and they have been for decades. this directive is all the more timely in the light of the economic crisis, which has also had a serious impact on the citizens of the european union. in the light of the above, the institutions of the european union have focused on developing coherent regulations on the taking out of mortgage loans, which until now have not had a common eu legal framework. this document applies to lenders, credit intermediaries and consumers themselves. these rules cover information and the provision of sufficient time for the consumer to compare offers and to obtain reliable advice before the conclusion of the contract. in addition, the report clarifies the definitions of special risk contracts, the principles for assessing creditworthiness or the possibility of early repayment of the borrowed loan. i hope that the proposed regulation on credit agreements relating to residential property is a step forward in restoring the confidence of european union citizens in financial markets. i hope that this directive will guarantee a fair and responsible single market for consumers, lenders and credit intermediaries alike.
in writing. − for many european citizens, a mortgage is one of the biggest financial obligations they have for many years. these loans are necessary for most eu citizens to acquire property, are also of great economic importance and therefore need protection. while there are limited possibilities for harmonising eu legislation on credit agreements relating to residential immovable property, it is important to focus on ensuring a high level of protection for consumers throughout the european union and on ensuring that consumers are informed accurately about the total cost of the credit borne by them. this cost should include interest, commissions, taxes, fees for credit intermediaries and any other fees and the cost of insurance or other ancillary products, if these are mandatory to obtain the credit on the terms offered. it is also important to guarantee the consumer the right to withdraw from the credit agreement within 7 days of the conclusion of the contract, the right to exchange or early repayment of the credit. i also support the introduction of regulations to protect consumers from unfair or misleading advertising practices in mortgage credit advertisements.
in writing. - we have adopted today a directive on credit agreements for residential immovable property. the main objectives of the directive are to protect the interests of borrowers, inter alia by preventing unfair selling practices and by increasing the information obligations of banks. the directive also aims to promote the development of an efficient and competitive european mortgage credit market and provides for the harmonisation of standards for the examination of creditworthiness and the provision of information on credit interest rates and prohibits so-called tied sales. the decision to take out a home loan is one of the most important financial decisions people make in their lives. that is why it is so important that the market for such loans is transparent and consumer-friendly. that is why i voted for this document.
in writing. − global warming caused by the emission of harmful pollutants into the atmosphere, especially co2, is one of the major challenges facing developed countries. the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) has reduced co2 emissions by more than 10% since 2008. the economic crisis, combined with the planned transition to the third accounting period (2013-2020), has resulted in a significant surplus of allowances, leading to a decrease in carbon prices from eur 30 to around eur 7 per tonne. the fall in prices is affecting the lack of use of innovative low-carbon technologies and the commission has therefore proposed the so-called ets backloading, i.e. the suspension of the auctioning of part of the emission allowances, which would in turn stimulate co2 prices. just as i support strengthening climate policy and investing in renewable energy, i am opposed to similar interference in the emissions market. the sharp increase in their prices may have a direct impact on even higher electricity prices for households and industry, especially energy-intensive sectors. analysis shows that the coal-based energy sector in poland will generate costs of around eur 1 billion in 2013-2020, which will be borne by ordinary citizens.
in writing. - compared with wheat, international trade in rice appears to be small. but that doesn't mean that this raw material doesn't matter in the world. rice is a staple food for nearly half the population and is considered strategically important in many regions of the world. however, a large part of the trade is concentrated in local markets, never going to export. southeast asian countries - china, india, indonesia, and bangladesh - are the world's leading rice producers. these countries also account for the majority of the world's consumption of rice, and therefore the rice market is not very internationalised. thailand, vietnam, india, and the united states are among the world's largest rice exporters. rice is not and will not be a strategic raw material for the polish economy. despite the growing preference of native consumers for asian dishes, per capita rice consumption does not exceed the european union average and is much lower than the average consumption in spain or portugal, for example. interestingly, the majority of rice on polish shelves is not sourced from asia but is produced in the european union, mainly in italy and spain. the high duties on agricultural products imported into the union mean that, despite the fall in the price of rice on world markets, polish consumers are unlikely to expect significant price reductions in shops.
in writing. − the greenhouse gas emissions trading system (ets) is designed to reduce the negative environmental impact of european industry. however, the introduction of this method of co2 reduction has created a kind of 'virtual' market, generating huge costs for the operators involved and limiting the operation of plants and power plants in the eu. today, we are in a situation where supply has exceeded demand and the surplus of allowances is driving down their prices. to address this, the european commission has proposed to suspend 900 million allowances after 2013 (backloading). in this way, it seeks to increase the price of the current licences. unfortunately, for countries whose economies are largely based on coal, such interference with the ets can cause a dramatic increase in energy prices. moreover, as a result of this market manipulation, many production facilities may relocate outside the union. i am firmly opposed to this solution, which is likely to have negative economic consequences for many community countries, undermine the credibility of our market and seriously reduce europe's competitiveness on the world stage.
in writing. - today in parliament, despite the strong opposition of polish meps, parliament unfortunately gave the green light to the report of the head of the envi committee, matthias groote, on the freezing of 900 million co2 emission allowances, the so-called backloading. the integration of the co2 market, which the eu says is intended to increase the price of emission allowances and thus encourage companies to invest in low-carbon technologies, is, in my view, another step towards the union's suicidal climate policy, which reduces the competitiveness of european economies. poland may lose pln 4 billion as a result of the implementation of backloading. environmental protection cannot be at the expense of the proper functioning of our industry. about half a million people are employed in the polish mining industry. our job is to protect their jobs. that's why i've consistently opposed interference with the emissions trading system. i regret that the polish government has not succeeded in creating a blocking dinner of states in the eu council that could oppose this legislative proposal.
in writing. − the introduction of the third vote on the provision allowing the commission to dictate the timetable for changes and other actions in relation to the auctioning of co2 allowances is an attempt to use democratic procedures to take undemocratic, economically important decisions without consulting the member states. the commission is clearly determined to do harm to the economies of the most economically weak countries in the name of a climate dogma that unjustifiably links climate change with anthropogenic co2 emissions. baseless, because it's based on an unscientific hypothesis. we should move away from the ets because this european system has not passed the practical test and is inconsistent with the kyoto decisions on this issue (for example, regarding the emission limits imposed by the ec between 2008 and 2012), and does not take into account all market elements, such as the absorption capacity of agriculture and forestry and the monetization of these sectors of the economy on emissions trading. the objective of directive 2003/87/ec is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, not the high price of emission allowances themselves. emissions have already been reduced to the level that was supposed to be reached in 2020, and so by 20 percent last year. the impact of the intervention on individual member states, which will in many cases be associated with a deterioration in the competitive position of the industry, has not been properly assessed. the report had therefore to be categorically rejected.
in writing. - i disagree with the report. yes, i fully agree that as users of this planet, we should care for it so that future generations can use its resources in the same way. but there is a need to be reasonable in all things and not to do anything at all costs. i think that's what happened in this vote, and the vote shows that my vote is not isolated. i'm not sure that the continent's economy is prepared to raise energy prices and reduce its competitiveness, especially at such a volatile time of emerging from the crisis. this is all the more so as the unforeseen decline in carbon prices has not worked to support sustainable scientific and technological innovation and has contributed to reducing incentives to invest in low-carbon technologies and even to making the european market dependent on infrastructure that generates even higher co2 emissions. the predictable result is that when our industry collapses or is moved to a place where it can develop better, europe will be forced to buy these products from somewhere else. regardless of the amount of carbon dioxide emissions at which they occurred.
in writing. − the report on emissions trading was already debated in the european parliament this year. this is one of the most controversial reports, because it addresses a key issue for countries whose energy system is based on hard coal. from my point of view, this is a drive to artificially inflate the price of emissions trading. this solution is not beneficial at all, and is even harmful to poland. i understand the genesis: the root cause of the problem is the reckless political consent of the state authorities in 2007, and then the situation worsened in 2008, accepting these 6 instruments, among them the emissions trading. the decision-makers were under the illusion that poland would be given the 1990 emission level as a basis, and in practice the 2005 level was set for it. the years 1990-2005 led to the collapse of many mines, smelters and other emitters. it took a lot of effort to make huge changes in the economy that don't matter now. that's what made me vote against it.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? i voted against the proposal to intervene in the ets market because i believe that the temporary withdrawal of allowances from the market changes an essential element of the ets directive, since it violates the accepted principle of an annual reduction of the market's allowance pool by 1,74%. the eu's emissions trading system, which once again fails, is a pillar of the eu's strategy to combat climate change. the results of the two plenary votes so far are seen as a clear sign of the instability of this market. the compromise proposal voted on today between the council, the commission and parliament sets a dangerous precedent. there should be no agreement in this house to turn the current emissions trading system into a tool for artificially raising the price of allowances, which will in turn lead to higher energy prices in europe. i hope that this kind of interference will not lead to the escape of industry outside the eu.
in writing. - i voted against the report because i believe it will make the situation of european businesses worse. it will lead to an inherently energy-intensive and high-emission industry with higher operating costs, making production in europe even more expensive. this will contribute to the relocation of factories and industrial plants outside the european union. this is particularly worrying given the crisis in which the european economy is mired. withdrawing the co2 allowance from the auction is nothing more than a change of rules in the game. the market mechanism, imperfect but consensual and nonetheless market-based, was turned upside down by a single decision of the european parliament. under the law, the european commission is supposed to assess whether the market is functioning properly or not, and whether the price levels for emission allowances are appropriate.
in writing. − europe needs an eu climate policy and it is always worth striving for ambition. as an organisation of industrialised countries, the european union has a duty to combat the negative effects of climate change and to set a good example of sustainable development for the world to follow. for these reasons, i support european climate policy. but we cannot remain blind to the current economic and social situation and to the disparities in development within the union itself. withdrawing part of the greenhouse gas emission allowances from the market will increase their price, which may lead to curbing of the emissions themselves. in reality, these are just assumptions that could carry much more serious risks, for example in the form of the migration of high-emission industries outside the eu. and that means thousands of jobs. in times of crisis, europe cannot afford to do this. climate policy cannot be an automatic policy; it must always go hand in hand with concern for the employment and well-being of europeans. i am convinced that just as today the majority of germans, french and swedes support the reduction of industrial emissions in the eu, i hope that in the near future the majority of poles will also support this. but it will be difficult to convince them to do so by taking away their jobs and limiting their opportunities to improve their living standards. for these reasons, i have decided to vote against the resolution.
in writing. − the european greenhouse gas emissions trading system (ets) needs to be reformed. this central instrument of eu climate policy was adopted to promote emission reductions. the prices of allowances reflecting the cost of greenhouse gas emissions from electricity generation and industrial production are set in a market-based manner. at the beginning (in 2005) they were around eur 30 per tonne, but recently they have fallen even below eur 3. the economic slowdown, the increase in energy efficiency and the share of cleaner fuels in the energy mix, as well as the accumulation of additional allowances from previous years, have led to a surplus and, consequently, to a large fall in prices. low prices mean that it is not profitable for companies to switch to cleaner fuels or invest in low-carbon technologies. this undermines the credibility of the eu's flagship climate policy instrument. the european commission (ec) is therefore seeking to change the way the ets operates. firstly, it proposes short-term solutions, or so-called backloading, and secondly, structural changes.
mr. chairman, please! the european parliament once again calls for respect for human rights and protests against discrimination on grounds of gender, ethnic and racial origin. this time our focus is on the situation of roma women. the report adopted today shows how dramatic the situation is. roma women in their communities, due to cultural conditions, have a much lower status than men, have a lower education, have difficulty accessing professional work, and are more likely to experience poverty than men. this lower status of women in roma communities is also compounded by the stigma and prejudice against roma in some societies. we often see the isolation of roma from the wider society in which they live every day. the european parliament cannot tolerate such attitudes, which is why it is good that the report has so clearly shown the problems of discrimination against roma women. i am very pleased to have been able to support this report today.
in writing. − on 9 july 2011, south sudan became the world's youngest country. its establishment was the culmination of a six-year peace process, initiated by the signing of the comprehensive peace agreement (cpa) in 2005 between the government of sudan and the sudan people's liberation army. it ended a devastating civil war that had lasted for more than two decades. the united nations mission in sudan (unmis), established by the security council in 2005, supported the implementation of the cpa, which provided for the holding of an independence referendum to determine the final status of south sudan. in the referendum held in january 2011, 98.84% of voters voted for independence. the un secretary-general welcomed the outcome of the vote, describing it as an expression of the will of the people of south sudan.
mr. chairman, please! the report i have supported today should be seen in the broadest possible light, because although the cars2020 plan proposed by the european commission is strictly for the automotive industry, it affects the entire eu economy. when we think of the automotive industry, we must also think of all those who work for companies that work with car manufacturers and produce for them a number of components and parts necessary for the manufacture of the final product. when we talk about the automobile industry, we have to take into account the problems of the whole sector, that is, the car manufacturers and all the entrepreneurs who work with them. the european commission's cars2020 plan is right to focus on maintaining the global competitiveness of european car manufacturers and to recognise the need to innovate in order to produce safe and energy-efficient vehicles that reduce co2, noise and other pollutants, and to make it easier for smes in particular to access credit to finance innovation and research.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the action plan for a competitive and sustainable automotive industry in europe. it is a very important sector of the economy, employing 12 million union citizens and representing a quarter of world production. unfortunately, as a result of the economic crisis, the car market is now experiencing adverse changes and the biggest decline in car sales since 1995. car production is increasingly being shifted to the countries with the highest demand for cars, the emerging world economies. in this context, i support the proposals of the rapporteur and the european commission to develop a cars 2020 action plan, which aims to develop a strategy to increase the european competitiveness of the sector. in the context of the current situation in the automotive markets in europe, i believe that the focus should be on the strength of their innovation potential. the proposed cars 2020 plan envisages the promotion of new and advanced technological solutions in the automotive industry and the introduction of clean energy vehicles on the market. i believe that investment in research and development of green technologies is the key to maintaining and further developing europe's manufacturing base. i am convinced that in the near future these measures will contribute to the recovery of the labour market and to the competitiveness of the european automotive industry on a global scale.
in writing. - the automotive industry is the litmus test of the entire industry. its corporate structure is conducive to monopolization of industry, elimination of competition and delocalisation. the cars 2020 project has reduced the global competitiveness of european industry to solutions within the countries where the car companies are based. it does not address how cooperation can increase competitiveness and demand. the continuous price competitiveness in the so-called value chain has been underestimated. the solutions resulting from the european environmental objectives are a great opportunity to create sustainable competitiveness. electric cars are the automotive revolution that depends on better batteries. the competitiveness policy of some automotive companies is to underestimate the cost of the final product and to recover it by scraping the price of authorised parts. for this reason, unfortunately, the repair clause is rejected by the countries in which the companies are located. the repair clause across the european market would provide a unique opportunity to create lasting competitiveness for the european automotive industry. this would require the rules on industrial designs to be made more flexible. the union's automotive policy should take into account, through the liberalisation of the production of low-cost spare parts, the improvement of environmental performance and the purchase of cheaper, quality-compatible and safe automotive products.
in writing. − the automotive industry is one of the most complex and complex sectors in the european union. it provides millions of jobs and makes a huge contribution to the european economy. however, the sector has been particularly hard hit by the economic crisis, which is why comprehensive action is so important for a competitive and sustainable automotive industry in the european union. the union internal market is certainly the most important factor for the future success of the european automotive industry. common technical standards, rules on road safety and product safety, and noise and pollution emissions provide a high level of protection for over 500 million european consumers. it should also be borne in mind that the automotive industry, including smes in this sector, is a leader in innovation and advanced technologies (e.g. the ecall system). this is why support for this sector from eu programmes and funds such as horizon 2020, cosme and the esf is so important. it will not only help to maintain competitiveness on the global market, but above all to improve road safety and consumer protection.
in writing. - we are all aware of the crisis the european automotive sector is going through. the figures speak for themselves: in 2012, europe recorded about 12 million units sold, compared to 17 million in 2007. this is the lowest figure since 1995. in this respect, the commission's proposal with the cars 2020 plan was a good starting point, enhanced by the rapporteur's work. the european automotive industry needs new and more efficient financial instruments to boost its growth; it also needs an industrial policy that anticipates the challenges of the future, investing in innovation and competitiveness, and, ultimately, it needs adequate regulatory safeguards to combat unfair competition. the coordination and effective use of the many instruments europe has at its disposal to advance the industrial sector (internal market, international trade, etc.) will be the keys to the recovery of the automotive sector in europe.
in writing. − the coming decade will likely bring a significant increase in car sales in emerging economies. this will give the eu car industry opportunities, accompanied, however by strong pressure to improve sustainability and face increasing global competition. the most important issue is reinforcing the automobile sector as this mean creating jobs and wealth in europe through increasing competitiveness, innovation and the increasing adoption of a sustainable approach towards mobility. the completion of the internal market for cars, including the aftermarket, and an international trade policy aiming at reciprocity are key elements for improving competitiveness. i voted in favour of the report because cars 2020 is a good solution for the ever-growing automotive industry in europe.
in writing. the european automotive industry generates 16% of the eu's gdp and 12 million jobs. since the start of the economic crisis, the european car market, which is considered to be one of the 'mature' markets, has reduced demand for cars from 17 million units per year to 12 million units per year. at the same time, there was a sharp decline in employment directly in production and in services, as well as in ancillary production. today's hearing is to analyse the phenomena associated with the loss of global leadership by the european automotive industry and its social consequences. today's cars 2020 debate was organised under the leading theme 'jobs and the competitiveness of the automotive industry in an economic crisis'.
in writing. - i regard today's vote on reproductive and sexual health and rights as a great success for my political group, the christian democrats, and for the european parliament as a whole, mobilized by the masses of eu citizens concerned by the content of mrs estreli's report. the alternative resolution, prepared in cooperation with the conservatives in the ep, not only respects international human rights law but also respects the principle of subsidiarity, according to which the european union has no right to interfere with the competences of the member states. as a pole and a european, i oppose concepts that reduce the issue of mother and child care to the concept of sexual and reproductive rights, including propaganda for widely available abortion or actions that violate the right of parents to raise their children, in particular by exerting pressure to make contraceptives available to minors or abortion without parental consent. as a member of the european parliament, i have received a mandate from the lublin region obliging me to protect the dignity, health and bodily integrity of women and to take action to guarantee freedom of conscience and religion in accordance with the letter of the constitution of the republic of poland.
in writing. − today's rejection of the bill adopted by the parliamentary committee on women's rights and equality (femm) is above all a spectacular victory for pro-life values. it is also a reminder that member states are sovereign states and that parliament has a duty to respect the principle of non-interference in areas reserved to national legislation. the estreli project included a recommendation to eu member states that 'high-quality abortion services be legal, safe and accessible to all within healthcare systems'. the report was controversial not only because of its attempt to legitimize the right to abortion itself, but also other sexual health rights such as sex education. european union law recognises the freedom of parents to raise their children in accordance with their own beliefs and values as a fundamental human right. this freedom was violated by the report's provision of mandatory sex education, according to accepted standards. for this and many other reasons, i strongly condemn the disgraceful report by mrs estreli and i am glad that parliament has adopted an alternative version of it.
in writing. − sexual and reproductive health and rights (srhr) are essential elements of human dignity, and a core basis for social and economic progress. these are also fundamental human rights which all eu countries have committed to respect and protect. today, 10 december, international human rights day, parliament was presented with the opportunity to support and advance the principles of freedom, equality and non-discrimination with the resolution to support srhr for all, in the eu and beyond. today, parliament could have made a real change to the lives of so many women and girls, by voting to support equal access to affordable, high-quality healthcare services, reliable information and counselling. all are essential services for allowing women, men, girls and boys to make free and responsible decisions on sexual matters. unfortunately this opportunity was missed due to persistent campaigns by conservatives and right-wing groups to reject the resolution. acting in this way, these groups have thrown away years of progress on womenʼs rights and gender equality. that is to be deplored. nevertheless, srhr are a common european responsibility; thus we must continue our fight for the right of everyone to have access to affordable healthcare, education and information on srhr.
in writing. - the report on sexual and reproductive health and rights, which is being put to the vote today, raises fundamental questions both in the ethical sphere and in its compatibility with eu law. the european union may act only within the limits and on the basis of primary law. nothing in the treaties reserves to the union the competence to deal with matters of ethics of human life. these issues, including the regulation of abortion, are the exclusive jurisdiction of the sovereign member states. the european parliament cannot impose and promote abortion. the union's task is to promote economic development, not to introduce regulations that are deeply contrary to europe's christian heritage and common sense. i call on all people of good will to reject this unlawful and harmful resolution to the human family!
in writing. − while surrounded by controversy, the decision on the report regarding sexual and reproductive health and rights (a7-0426/2013) is in fact an important document. it outlines the necessity for vital healthcare for women and their rights to obtain said care. in the report however there are certain things that prevent me from fully supporting it. therefore, i have voted in favour of the items that directly assist women in need and have not supported particular matters that are not presented clearly or have conflicting attributes. that being said, i fully and completely support the wellbeing of all eu citizens and will continue to contribute where possible to upholding the highest standards of healthcare for all.
in writing. − the idea of volunteering is a vehicle for the values on which a united europe is based. its role is invaluable in pursuing the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy by generating social capital, stimulating growth and supporting economic and social cohesion in the european union, even if the nature of these activities is not directly linked to economic interest. this is why it is so important to create an enabling environment for volunteering and its widespread availability in all eu member states, and to promote it especially among pupils, students and young people, especially as the role of volunteering is crucial in gaining experience and skills that will then help them to find their place in the labour market. it is therefore necessary to continue the work started in 2011 during the european year of volunteering in order to promote volunteering in all eu countries, to reward the commitment of volunteers and to help tackle the challenges faced by volunteering in the economic crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the scurrie report because i believe that a strong and well-organised volunteering service is an invaluable asset for society as a whole and has a positive impact on the development of human capital. it also helps volunteers to acquire the skills that employers are looking for. the european year of volunteering has shown how much energy and potential there is in volunteering. the activities initiated then and continued have helped to improve the climate around volunteering and to draw public attention to the importance of volunteering. at the same time, however, it became clear that there was still much to be done in the organisational and legal area. unfortunately, non-formal and informal learning, such as volunteering, has not yet been fully integrated into the process of recognition of education. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the member states should implement the council's recommendations in this area as soon as possible. i also fully support the idea of creating a single contact point responsible for volunteering policy and coordination throughout the european union. recognition of volunteering activities and their good organisation will contribute to improving their quality.
in writing. - fellow workers! volunteering has always been a way of supporting other people. i am glad to see that more and more young people in many countries are getting involved in this initiative, which is a great alternative to the existing tools for activating young unemployed people. volunteering is part of the basic labour market service counselling and vocational information. it is an opportunity to gain professional experience, meet interesting people, make new contacts, develop self-realisation and, above all, to strengthen your own skills in the labour market. i believe that volunteering contributes to the development of intercultural dialogue, builds civil society and allows young people to enter the labour market. i am always a supporter of volunteering, i meet young volunteers in my activities and i am full of admiration for their activities, which i always support, and that is why i voted for the marco scurria report on volunteering and volunteering in europe.
in writing. - i abstained in the final vote on the marco scurri report. while i support the idea of volunteering and welcome the broad definition of volunteering, which covers the different forms of volunteering in the member states, i do not think that there is a need for a common european approach to this issue. i also think that there should be no european status for voluntary organisations. this would lead to over-regulation of the sector. this proposal, like several others, falls within the competence of the member states. as a pro-free market mep, i do not think it is right to order member states to introduce compulsory insurance for volunteers or to set up a european voluntary development fund.
in writing. - i voted for the report because i am a huge supporter of the idea of volunteering. i've always thought of it as the purest form of helping other people. not only because volunteering is selfless, but also because it is a self-development activity, and so it is chosen by those who want to expand their skills and qualifications. i'd like to bring up one aspect of the volunteerism that bothers me. well, i often get the impression that volunteers are meant to replace paid labor. the amount of work that volunteers have to do, and the amount of time they have to devote to the tasks involved, sometimes seems overwhelming to me. i understand the times we live in and the difficulties in the labour market that people in the union have to face, but they can in no way justify the behaviour of people responsible for the various types of events and organisations where volunteers are used. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the internet in the european union. i would like to thank the rapporteur for taking up such an important matter and i fully endorse the solutions proposed to promote volunteering in europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i think it is obvious to any unprejudiced mind that the eastern partnership summit in vilnius was a humiliating failure. let us admit it: the eastern partnership has never been a darling child of the european union – poorly funded and poorly executed, it was never at the centre of eu strategy. it is no wonder that in this last political skirmish it was russia that won, and it was the eu that lost. the problem is that european union politicians have never treated ukraine as a strategic and important part of a larger game plan in which russia is a potent and dangerously imperialist player. instead, it was the national governments of germany and france that played their bilateral, egoistic games with the russian government – as they have done, by the way, for several centuries. it is amazing to see how political habits die hard. the ‘russia first’ principle may have had its ups and downs, but it will survive – recent declarations by top german politicians notwithstanding. will the latest developments in ukraine teach a lesson to the european political class? i do not think so. when the turmoil subsides, the big guys from moscow, berlin, paris and elsewhere will go back to business: business as usual.
on behalf of the efd group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. despite the signing of the vilnius agreements by georgia and moldova with the european union, it is clear that this meeting ended in a clear defeat for the european union's eastern policy. the proposal for cooperation was rejected by the largest and most important partner country of the european union, that is ukraine, and it happened - obviously for every observer - as it had to happen, as it was inevitable. well, there was a lot of pretending about eastern politics from the very beginning. the european union pretended to be particularly involved in eastern policy and to be keenly interested in ukraine's integration into the european community. the european union has been pretending that the agreement is, in fact, doomed to be signed, only the tymoshenko case stands in the way. the european union finally pretended that there was really only one partner in this matter, a free and sovereign ukraine, when in fact we had two important partners: ukraine in the foreground on the one hand, but russia on the other. and all of these circumstances were completely ignored and disregarded. it was known that russia considers ukraine as a sphere of its influence, not just economic, as a strategic sphere of its influence. it was known that the ukrainian economy was in a dramatic situation. and finally, it was known and predictable that russia would not for the first time use economic pressure, economic threats as a form of blackmail, preventing the development of closer relations between ukraine and the european union. and this scenario was not in the plans of eu politicians. they were completely surprised by putin's actions, they were completely surprised by the dramatic situation that ukraine found itself in. in this situation, one thing can be said: the dramatic failure of the vilnius summit is the result of neglect and naive, ill-considered eu policy, which was doomed to fail and fail.
mr. chairman, please! we are at a unique moment when we can still make a difference. i came here straight from the maidan, i was there with the students in the middle of the night. i have a feeling that our debate, mrs. ashton's visit, and the signals that are going to come out of this could have some real impact. i am concerned that we are discussing various issues here, and that the central problem, the problem of visas - we have the right to do so as politicians in the european parliament - is even hidden somewhere in our resolution between sentences. the first thing we can do is to address the students, this young ukraine and tell them that the door for them individually is already open and to say publicly that we only need a few changes in the legislation, and that could be in a year. why was it missing during the orange revolution? why is it missing today? why can't we just say a few simple words? that's our job. before we sit down at the ukrainian round or square table, let's do what we should do as politicians, send a clear signal that the door is open to them. let's not be afraid.
i thank the house for allowing this debate and for the resolution i have tabled. ukraine is crucial to the eastern partnership and exactly everything we have to say is contained in the resolution on which we just concluded negotiations an hour ago. most ukrainians support the european option. the president, the government, the parliament all supported it, right up to vilnius. then the president and the government made a turn and did not sign the association in vilnius. this decision is being contested by the mass euromaidan movement and euromaidans in ukraine. because the president and the government have lost the democratic legitimacy to pursue this policy. the european parliament is on the side of the euromaidan, on the side of the beaten and oppressed, demanding their release and the cessation of the use of force. the eu's offer is still valid, we are calling for a peaceful solution through a round table formula, modelled on the polish round table, but a real one, not the pretend one that is taking place in kiev today. the democratic european choice of ukraine can best be made and confirmed by an accelerated parliamentary election. the european union has a moral and political obligation to support ukraine's democratic and sovereign european choice. we have a duty to defend ukraine against russian pressure and sanctions and to apply pressure and appropriate sanctions against russia. the european parliament hears the cry from ukraine: 'europe's hero!' from euromaidan and responds: 'we are with you!' we respond with solidarity and support. this call for democracy and europe, and european standards, gives hope, gives hope to europe, because it shows the strength of european values and the strength of european democracy. thank you!
mr. chairman, please! this is the european parliament's reply to mr maidan: 'we are with you'. the european parliament is responding to people who are fighting for the right cause. but it should also be a wake-up call to some of the politicians in this room who are denying the democratic mandate to the president of this country. he was elected four years ago, and we accepted that choice. they're denying the mandate of the supreme council, which was elected a year ago. in this supreme council there is the opposition, which is in the minority, there is the party of regions, which has formed the government. it is their duty to speak for those people who are for europe and those who are against it. we cannot ignore the reality we have sealed ourselves. so wake up, ladies and gentlemen, who are not seeing these facts. and as for the european union, more patience, more imagination and an open door for millions of people in the eastern partnership policy, which we have worked so hard to create together with the european commission and the commissioner here. we've raised those hopes, we can't close the door. this hand doesn't end the story, this story continues. after november 29th, there's november 30th and then there's december. let's talk about it and stop talking nonsense in this room. (the speaker agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8))
blue-card question. – mr siwiec, do you not think that a government – and a president – which is elected on a promise to choose europe, but then changes its mind and its decision, loses democratic legitimacy? that is not democracy.
blue-card answers to elmar brok and jacek saryusz-wolski. – dear elmar, nine years ago we spent a few days in frozen kiev and you know very well that this is not a question about the credibility of president yanukovych; it is a question about our efficiency and how the neighbourhood policy is efficient, about how much we can enjoy the outcome of vilnius and how much we cannot enjoy it. so believe me, this is not a question of credibility, this is not a question of confidence. coming back to the question by mr saryusz-wolski, i must say that credibility is given by the ukrainian people and it can be withdrawn by the ukrainian people. we can confirm or we can like the decision by the ukrainian authorities or we can decide not to like it. this is about our role. we can do as we did nine years ago: advise, be active, be cooperative, be critical. it does not matter who wins the elections, this was our job. so if you want to organise the revolution in ukraine, please move directly to kiev and do that, but respect the law which you accepted one year ago during the last parliamentary elections and very many times before, for however many elections there have been. that is what i am asking for. i am with these people, but i am not against the rule which we have accepted.
mr. chairman, please! the eastern partnership summit in vilnius, long awaited and announced with great fanfare as a great success of the eu's eastern policy, turned out to be in fact a lens in which, mainly due to russia's actions, all our mistakes in the negotiations and all the shortcomings associated with these negotiations were focused. the initiation of association agreements with georgia and moldova is a very good sign, but it should be borne in mind that the internal situation in both countries is not quite stable. the european union should therefore redouble its efforts to bring about the signing and implementation of these agreements as soon as possible, and the example of ukraine shows that initiating an agreement does not mean success. whatever happens in ukraine and whatever happens in armenia, the union cannot close its doors to these countries, but must continue to implement joint programmes, help with reforms and facilitate the flow of people, especially young people: pupils, students and researchers. and one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. i think that we should seriously consider lifting visas for ukraine, and sanctions, sanctions for the yanukovych regime, which is acting against its own people. a government that acts against its own people should not be given the respect and recognition it deserves in this chamber.
the question is asked by raising the blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. however, i think that there are lessons to be learned from the vilnius summit and that the work of commissioner füle and his team, which helped to initial the agreements with moldova and georgia, should be appreciated. do you not think that it is now, in this parliament, that the commission should be given a clear political signal to sign these agreements as soon as possible and to implement them as soon as possible? do you really not think that this is one of the best signals we can send to ukraine, because people will see that at least in relation to georgia and moldova we are able to act effectively? this will be very good for ukraine. what do you think?
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. we have a clear shortfall after the vilnius summit, especially with the non-signing of the association agreement with ukraine. do we have to self-harm for this? i don't think you are. the european union really did everything, offered very good terms to the ukrainian side. the deal has been negotiated for many years, not only with the current government, but also with the previous one, which was led by the leaders of the current opposition. the terms of the agreement have been known for a long time, because it was initialed many months ago, and the decision not to sign it was not made here in brussels, it is not the fault of the european union, but it is the fault or responsibility of the current ukrainian authorities. i understand the pressure and the russian context, and the geopolitical context, but we really should stop blaming ourselves for the fact that the deal with ukraine in vilnius didn't happen. today we really need to support all those ukrainians who are protesting in the streets of kiev or are trying to get back to the association talks. it is very important that both commissioner and mrs ashton and the eu leaders have declared that the association agreement is still valid and can be signed. and i would like to congratulate the commissioner, after all, on the fact that it was possible to initial the agreements with georgia and moldova in vilnius and to open up the possibility of a visa dialogue with belarus, although this is still unsatisfactory, but a real achievement of the vilnius summit, for which we would also like to congratulate the commissioner.
mr. chairman, please! i agree with you, commissioner, that the vilnius summit is still on the maidan. not only the place has changed, but also the emotions of ukrainians who were united by a common protest a protest of those who want democratic changes and european standards. i wish the best for the people of ukraine and i believe that the enthusiasm and solidarity we see in maidan will be the impetus for good and necessary changes, for reforms that will allow wings to be spread, for decisions that give hope for a normal, better life. i realize that it is the ukrainian people who must make the decision, who must write the newest history of ukraine. it's true, as mr. brok said, that people choose their own paths, but sometimes, as in ukraine, they're denied that chance. that is why the ukrainians must feel that they can always count on the european union, on our help, our support, our solidarity.
in writing. today's debate should be dominated by a careful analysis not only of the failure of the vilnius summit or the protests of ukrainian society, but above all by drawing conclusions from the bilateral actions undertaken by the diplomats of the individual member states and the eu itself, also in the context of the eastern partnership programme! given the size of the internal market and the proximity of the borders, ukraine should be a natural partner of a united europe! yes, we have many political differences, but we must not forget the fighting and hopeful ukrainian people! in the context of the work on the list of third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders of the eu and of those whose nationals are exempt from this requirement, i have submitted amendments requiring the inclusion of ukraine on the positive visa list. so, as a resident of lublin, located near the border of eastern poland, i wanted to remind about ukraine and its people! the rapporteur's call for transparency in the process and the need for further discussion led me to withdraw the amendments. but i still support their political message! ukraine has made impressive changes to its law. the government in kiev is taking the commitments set out in the roadmap seriously. i would like the ukrainian authorities to confirm this effort by ratifying the association agreement with the eu. so i remain hopeful that we will soon be able to announce to the citizens of europe and ukraine the decision to bilaterally lift the visa requirement!
in writing. the recent events in ukraine require a strong response from the european union. ukrainian society, through recent protests, and especially euromaidan, has clearly expressed its pro-european aspirations and dissatisfaction with the government's withdrawal from signing the association agreement. the use of force against peaceful protesters must be strongly condemned - such actions do not meet democratic standards! i believe that it is our duty now to provide concrete support to civil society in ukraine. a clear roadmap to eu membership is needed and the way in which democratic and economic reforms are supported needs to be adapted to the present situation.
in writing. i would like to express my solidarity with ukrainian civil society that has been protesting for two weeks on euromaidan throughout the country. ukraine is a key player in the eastern partnership. the association agreement has been negotiated for many years, not only with the current government, but also with the previous government led by the leaders of the current opposition. the terms of the agreement have been known for a long time and it was initialed many months ago. the european union has offered very good terms to the ukrainian side. we have a duty to defend ukraine from russian pressure and sanctions, and to apply pressure and appropriate sanctions against russia. i am deeply disappointed that ukraine has not signed the long-negotiated association agreement. in the present situation, we must also be ready to support ukraine. we should not tolerate the brutality of the security forces against the demonstrators, i call on the ukrainian authorities to guarantee the safety of all demonstrators and to condemn the use of force against a peaceful demonstration in support of ukraine's integration with the european union. among the demonstrators were many young people and students, and their demands were in line with the official and declarations of the ukrainian government in recent years.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on development. - madam president! - what are you doing? the dci was not an easy compromise to reach. it took a lot of work and a lot of time. but for development cooperation, the dci is the most important instrument to ensure the smooth and effective implementation of our policies. it is quite routine to thank the rapporteurs in such situations, but this time the thanks are truly well deserved. from the perspective of the committee on development, the thanks go to member berman, member mitchell, thank you very much. it was hard work, and the compromise is good, as commissioner piebalgs said. i hope that the instrument in which we have placed so much hope will prove to be a good instrument, and the expectations are high. if the mdgs and the new post-2015 agenda are to be well implemented, dci must function well. i think this is a good starting point, and i hope it is.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on budgets. - madam president! - what are you doing? the changes in neighbouring and developing countries show that the european union needs effective external policy tools. i am convinced that the package of new financial instruments will meet these challenges. the 3% increase in costs much lower than the commission's proposal means that they need to be made more efficient. a good solution is to introduce a horizontal implementing regulation setting out simplified rules and procedures. the possibility of combining grants and loans, using innovative capital instruments and risk-sharing is also a step in the right direction. the new instruments emphasise better tailoring support to the needs, achievements and potential of individual countries, as well as greater flexibility. they prioritize human rights, democracy and good governance. i believe that parliament's demands for greater conditionality, synergy between instruments and better coordination will contribute to the effectiveness of external policies.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. - madam president! - what are you doing? before i refer to the position of the committee on industry, i would just like to mention that all these specific expectations of our external instruments will not be met unless we have the key strategic relations with the countries of the south and the east, whether it is an association agreement with one or the other country, or whether it is a question of stabilizing those countries. , all of this is a necessary condition for all of these specific things to happen. from the point of view of the committee on industry, our neighbourhood in the east and the south is of great importance, particularly in the field of energy. energy is crucial for competitiveness, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the economic development of these countries. the benefits are of course mutual, on the one hand we have the potential to tap into their energy resources, both conventional and renewable, on the other hand they have the potential to influence the diversification of energy supplies and sources for the european union. all this must be done in compliance with our acquis communautaire, the third energy package, the energy charter, the energy community treaty, our legal acquis. certainly, these benefits can be mutual, but we can only reap them if we solve our strategic problems, which we have, as it turns out, both in the south and in the east.
author of the draft opinion of the committee on regional development. - madam president! - what are you doing? i am very pleased that the financial assistance to the enlargement countries under the new ipa instrument, pre-accession ipa ii, will be more coherent, flexible and tailored to the needs and specificities of the individual regions, making it more effective and efficient. as a representative of the regi commission, i would like to stress how important it is for these countries to succeed in strengthening crossborder cooperation between regions and countries, which will allow the flow and exchange of information, knowledge and good practice. i am pleased that the instrument will support democratic change and strengthen democratic institutions, the development of civil society, regional development. it is important that countries have the opportunity to use this instrument to strengthen civil society, and in particular the role of young people, in building democracy and to create an enabling environment that will improve the conditions for political dialogue. it should help to build a balance between local, central and regional government institutions as well as local ones and accelerate public administration reform to improve the absorption of funds from aid instruments.
madam president! it's a good thing this instrument is here. it gives the european union the power to act. it is good that we can use these instruments in relation to countries with which we have far-reaching intentions, whether it be association or enlargement. it is good that parliament is gaining more and more influence over this instrument. i think the key thing is that we can be more responsive, that the greater flexibility of this instrument allows us to respond to the real challenges that arise for our partners, as is the case now for our partners in ukraine. we should focus on those elements that are really conducive to reform and the building of civil society. first, we should focus more on young people in the future and on building a pro-european elite from among those who are so strongly in favour of europe today. the second thing is to build everything that has to do with self-initiative, free markets, helping young people to get on their feet, who are the creators of civil society.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr edward cookan. difficult as usual, the annual report is very well done. i would like to say that the union is changing to better respond to today's global challenges in the field of human rights: we have extended the mandate of the election observation group and appointed a special representative for human rights. i would like to emphasise that the report recognises the importance of the creation of the european endowment for democracy. this is a flagship initiative of the polish presidency. the relevant provisions allowing its financing have also been introduced. it is good that the institutional changes for human rights are accompanied by concrete financial resources, i.e. some eur 63 billion. i would also like to thank mr kukan and the other rapporteurs for sharing the view that attention should be paid to the situation and persecution of christians in the world, for example in syria or the copts in egypt. i would like to emphasise the union's commitment to the mediterranean, but this must also be accompanied by a proportionate commitment to the east. the events at euromaidan confirm this. i would also like to thank you for maintaining my appeal to the international community for a thorough and objective explanation of the circumstances surrounding the death of the first cuban sakharov prize laureate, oswaldo payá sardinas.
mr. chairman, please! in the text of the report on human rights in the world in 2012, parliament refers, among other things, to the appalling situation of the persecution of christians, in this case in egypt and syria. article 54 condemns extremist violence against minorities, including the coptic christian community, and article 56 condemns the persecution of christians and other religious minorities in the middle east. it is good that these records are in this document, but as i have repeatedly stressed, they are too few and i agree with mr stadler on this point. let's recall that according to open doors, there are about 100 million christians who are persecuted because of their faith, making christians the most persecuted and discriminated against religious group in the world. christians are being murdered, according to other data, every five minutes a christian is killed in the world. i hope that the provisions of our resolution will serve as a starting point for wider action to protect christians in the world effectively.
mr. chairman, please! i would like to emphasize what the rapporteur has said in the first paragraph of his report. in it, we recognise that human rights are at the heart of the european union's relations with all third countries. it should not just be a valid declaration, but also a reality implemented in practical, daily actions. in the first paragraph, we also recognise that the european union's human rights policy 'must avoid double standards in foreign policy'. yes, that's very important too. any departure from this principle undermines the credibility of the european union. double standards, in a way, kill the concept of human rights. and the third important provision, also in the first paragraph, is the statement that 'the european union's human rights policy must ... ensure coherence between external and internal policy strategies'. without that kind of consistency, our credibility is going to be very low.
mr. chairman, please! i congratulate my colleague on a very good report. respect for minority rights is one of the major challenges of the 2012-13 enlargement strategy. this is a global problem, because one in three people in the world is already a minority in their own country. the tragic events in syria, libya and mali have shown that the eu's guidelines on international humanitarian law and the un security council need to be reformed to respond more effectively to crises. another aspect is the widespread violation of women's rights, including sexual violence. for example, since the beginning of the syrian conflict, more than 6,000 women have been raped. consistency between the union's internal and external action is essential in combating violence. we should join the convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of gender-based violence. i thank the commission for its action in this matter. the millennium development goals on gender equality, health, education, sexual and reproductive rights need to be better implemented. i also thank mr stavros for his work, commitment and effective cooperation with parliament.
i'm closing the debate. the vote will take place on wednesday 11 december 2013 at 12.20 p.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal of the application.
the next item is the report by marian harkin, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european globalisation adjustment fund (2014-2020) (com (2011) 0608 - c7-0319/2011 - 2011/0269 (cod)) (a7-0005/2013)
madam president! the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to support countries and regions experiencing major difficulties as a result of an increasingly globalised economy. however, it has unexpectedly proved to be a useful instrument in combating the negative effects of the global financial crisis and the associated budgetary crisis in some member states. this is demonstrated by the fact that more than 80% of the applications were motivated by the crisis. many experts point out that it is extremely difficult to prove that the difficulties faced by a company are the result of the process of globalisation. it's much easier to document that they're the result of a crisis. it is good that this possibility has been made permanent for the next financial period. it is also worth noting that the funds will be able to be spent in solidarity to support all workers, including those working through temporary employment agencies or on a self-employed basis. it is important to remember that more and more europeans are working in flexible forms of employment and it would be a mistake not to include them in this programme. finally, i would like to stress that we should all want the eu economy to be in a state where the funds from this fund never have to be used.
madam president! today, more than 2.5 million people are employed in households in the european union. it is a professional group that has a contribution to make to the creation of economic growth in europe. in addition, persons working in households often enable households to take up employment, which has an even more positive impact on growth and employment. unfortunately, many countries still lack adequate legal solutions to regulate the basic issues of employment in households. i am talking about working hours, the right to rest, clear and transparent information about working conditions and employment rates. in many countries, and unfortunately also in the european union, domestic work is characterised by high uncertainty, no employment contract, delayed pay, no social security, as was reported by colleagues here during the debate. moreover, almost 90% of those employed in households are women, very often immigrant women in difficult personal situations. in this context, member states must urgently develop instruments to provide legal certainty for this category of workers. in addition, persons working in households very often form a grey area, which has a negative impact on member states' budgets. we need to put in place solutions that encourage workers to register their activities and ensure job security.
in writing. - mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. ladies and gentlemen! i have no doubt that the adoption of the convention will only bring benefits. we often hear reports of the slave-like treatment of domestic workers. they work without any guarantee of employment, without social rights, for little pay. no one can control the conditions under which these people work and live. it's hard to believe this is all happening these days. the convention proposes a number of solutions to civilize domestic work. these may include the setting of a minimum age for work, provisions on respect for dignity and leisure, recommendations on the preparation of contracts setting out the terms of employment, or the inclusion of these persons in minimum employment provisions. these are just examples to show that we're moving in the right direction. the rapporteur stresses that many of the principles enshrined in the convention are human rights. it is difficult to understand why, until now, it has been possible in europe for people to be deprived of them. i hope that the member states will succeed in developing mechanisms to monitor compliance with the provisions of the convention, despite the difficulties this will entail. in conclusion, i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report. i believe it will change the difficult fate of many people in the european union. their work deserves it.
on behalf of the ppe group. - madam president! - i have to go. as the integration of the free movement of capital deepens, we also need an efficient and automated system for the exchange of information on the taxation of this capital. without receiving information from other member states, a single country is not able to manage its internal tax system effectively, especially with regard to direct taxes. the extension of the scope of the exchange of information to new categories, as proposed by the draft directive to categories of capital income, such as dividends or capital gains, of course i consider it useful from the point of view of the effectiveness of tax collection. in my view, we in the econ committee have succeeded in improving the commission's original proposal. i would like to make a special mention in my speech of the amendments which i consider important. we have pointed out that the legal definitions of the various categories of income and capital which will be covered by the automatic exchange of information in the framework of the amendment of the directive are not sufficiently precise. the lack of precision in the definition can cause a number of problems, as the difficulties of interpretation and the ambiguity of the concepts will hamper the effective fulfilment of the tax authorities' duties. moreover, the lack of clarity may result in the scope of the amendment being partly the same as that of other directives. the second important element of the proposal, in which the econ committee took a position, is the presentation in the original proposal of the so-called accessibility condition. the accessibility condition allows member states to retain a certain discretion in the exchange of tax information. by invoking this condition (but subject to certain limitations), a country may not exchange information on a category if it does not keep a register for it for its own tax purposes. not all member states have information on all the categories of income and assets listed in the directive. therefore, it seems to me that removing the availability condition too early may generate inadequate costs. i find the amendment by mr cutaşa to the european commission's mandate to negotiate framework agreements on the automatic exchange of information with third countries extremely valuable. i believe that this amendment, which requires member states to relinquish some of their powers, will strengthen the single market and thus the international negotiating position.
madam president! the figures cited in the report show very clearly that the eu economy suffers losses of hundreds of billions of euros every year due to breaches of the rules of fair competition. these are not small sums, although they do not include the costs of job cuts, which is particularly important now that so many member states are facing unemployment. despite the efforts of the european commission, it seems that in a union of sovereign states, this problem will always exist. each government will seek to promote practices and activities that give a competitive advantage to its leading companies. i wanted to draw attention to a major point raised in the report by my colleagues. in recent years, the restructuring of the banking sector has led to an even greater concentration of the market in the hands of a few major players. we have to remember that one of the reasons that the global financial crisis erupted was the need to bail out financial institutions that were too big to fail. instead of learning from the recent past, we have made it worse than it was. the banking sector is therefore the main focus of the attention of national competition authorities and the european commission, as it represents the greatest risk to the european economy.
mr president, commissioner, i have to ask you to stop this. the next european summit will undoubtedly deal with very important issues. these include the improvement of the functioning of the european monetary union and the common defence policy. however, in view of what is happening in kiev today, not just today, but for several weeks now, and especially last night, i have no doubt that the next european council should also deal with the situation in that country and with relations between the european union and ukraine. the decision to refuse to sign the association agreement, which came at almost the last moment before the vilnius summit, was surprising, but what is happening tonight, this morning, namely the intervention of the police against peaceful protesters and at the moment when the high representative of the european union for international policy and security is in kiev, is simply amazing, is more completely incomprehensible, and in any case inexplicable to me. that is why it is important that today, from our parliament, here in strasbourg, and next week from brussels, words of solidarity with these people, who are gathering in the hundreds of thousands on the maidan, words that will confirm that we understand their aspirations, that we share their dreams and that we will not allow violence in a country that aspires to join the european union to be the way to resolve social conflicts. i therefore propose an oral amendment to the resolution on the next european summit to ask the european council to take up the ukrainian question at its meeting next week.
mr. chairman, please! the creation and conduct of a common foreign, security and defence policy is a particularly difficult task, since it requires the reconciliation of not only political but also economic interests of many member states, and trade interests prevail over values. most of the speakers referred to ukraine. what do we got? the declarations and proposals of the eu are not very clear and specific, and the positions of many member states are silent or very quietly expressed in order not to harm their interests with russia. the european union's common security and defence policy is based on the values that underpin our work. i would like to stress the importance of the union's assistance in situations of security breaches, of the threat to civilian life caused by fighting, by wars that break out in various ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the new programme to protect the euro against counterfeiting because i believe that it is an effective way of protecting against the negative impact of currency counterfeiting on european markets. the new programme will also help to keep the euro stable. the current system for protecting the euro against counterfeiting is well prepared, but some details need to be improved to improve the level of security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation because people employed in households are a group that, because of the isolated nature of their work, are difficult to reach with information on their labour rights. adoption of the convention should help to address many of the problems of domestic workers and to raise awareness of their rights and improve their working conditions.
in writing. - ilo convention no 189 provides for the obligation to protect domestic workers who, being predominantly women and immigrant women, are in a highly vulnerable situation. unfortunately, they are often the victims of discrimination and abuses of various kinds, which constitute serious violations of human rights that must be strongly condemned. the convention stipulates that ratification shall not affect the most favourable provisions applicable to the rights of domestic workers.
in writing. − this report concerns the european parliament's consent to the ratification by the member states of those elements of ilo convention 189 which fall within the competence of the union. domestic work is one of the most invisible and at the same time unprotected forms of work. the international labour organisation's convention, which requires the protection of domestic workers, is therefore a very important convention. women and migrants are the most likely to be domestic workers, and are often the most exposed to various forms of discrimination and abuse, including serious human rights violations. an important element is the definition of a domestic worker as a person who performs work in or for the home, while at the same time obliging the signatory states to protect the fundamental rights associated with the traditional employment relationship. i voted in favour of this important report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because, despite armenia's withdrawal from the eu's association agreement for a customs union with russia, belarus and kazakhstan, i welcome armenia's active participation in the eastern partnership and other programmes linked to the european neighbourhood policy. the adoption of the agreement will contribute to the further development and strengthening of the bilateral relations in a number of areas.
in writing. − armenia is a country that has been actively participating in the european neighbourhood policy programmes since 2004 and in the eastern partnership since its inception in 2009. during this period, the armenian authorities have managed to initiate a number of political and structural reforms, strengthen the role of civil society, reform the electoral law, among other things. in 2013, under strong pressure from russia, the president of armenia decided to join the customs union in the economic sphere, while declaring a desire to further move closer to the eu in areas such as fighting corruption, strengthening the rule of law and good governance. allowing armenia to participate in programmes such as 'horizon 2020' or 'erasmus' will certainly contribute to deepening cooperation with the eu in these areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report to help the domestic industrial sector in spain and thus to combat the economic crisis that started in 2009 and the rising unemployment in the canary islands (unemployment rate was 10.4-12% until 2009 and 26.2% in 2009).
the joint implementing regulation coordinates all instruments in the field of the european union's foreign policy until 2020. i would like to emphasise that this joint implementing regulation coordinates, in a sense, expenditure from the various financial instruments, including the neighbourhood policy, the partnership, the european policy on human rights and democratisation, and i would like to thank you very much for the fact that, thanks to my amendments submitted in 2012 among others, it was possible to introduce clauses in these selected regulations mentioning directly the name of the european endowment for democracy as the beneficiary of the various instruments and as a result of the negotiations this provision has just been included in the joint implementing regulation for the years 2014-2020.
in writing. - i voted to accept the report. the adoption of a regulation will be a step towards streamlining and harmonising the union procedures applicable to external entities. the changes to the financial regulations will make the eu's financial assistance to external actors more efficient and the whole process of transferring and settling capital resources more transparent.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the work of the instrument for stability has been very good so far. the opinion of an independent and reliable body makes it a perfect candidate for emergency response, demonstrating the eu's high potential for responding quickly to crisis situations.
in writing. - the vilnius summit was a major failure of the eu's policy towards the east. he showed that, due to the lack of sufficient political will on the eu side, the lack of determination to effectively bring the countries involved closer to the european union, and finally the lack of adequate funding, russia has managed to win this political battle without much difficulty. despite this, or perhaps precisely because of this, it is extremely important to strengthen the instruments that can allow further cooperation with both those countries in the east that took a step towards europe in vilnius and those that temporarily stopped because of the unrelenting pressure from russia. the proper use of the european neighbourhood instrument gives hope that financial assistance, encouragement of social and political reforms and support for civil society in our eastern neighbours will continue. that is why i voted for this report.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! the existence of a democratic, stable, prosperous and peaceful area around europe is in our common interest. this is why the european neighbourhood policy is such a necessary part of a strategy to ensure the stability of the eu's neighbours and to improve and accelerate economic growth. the european neighbourhood instrument should be modified to allocate resources more efficiently between partner countries than in the previous financial perspective and to pursue more effectively objectives such as democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law, social protection, job creation, faster growth and the strengthening of civil society. as in the implementation of cohesion policy, the european neighbourhood policy should be based on the principles of partnership, cooperation at local and regional level, multi-level governance, in order to involve as many partners as possible in the planning, implementation and monitoring of joint enpi operational programmes. the report by mr kukana takes all these elements into account and that is why i voted in favour of it, thank you very much.
in writing. − the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi) is an initiative of the european commission whose main objective is to develop cooperation between the european union and non-eu partner countries by ensuring integrated and sustainable regional development. eur 173.322 million has been earmarked for this purpose, which will allow financial assistance to be provided to the european neighbourhood policy countries, including belarus, ukraine and the russian federation. the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi) will be implemented, inter alia, through cross-border cooperation programmes. potential beneficiaries of the programme will be institutions with a non-profit-making character contributing to the priorities of the programme, including, for example, local and regional authorities, non-governmental organisations, public institutions, euroregions.
madam president! each enlargement has a direct impact on strengthening the community's position in international relations and in the face of global challenges. internally, the internal market area is being extended, which is conducive to economic development and the growth of the potential of all member states. the instrument for pre-accession assistance was established to provide external assistance to the candidate countries and to support enlargement policy. the mechanism's main objectives are to support political, economic and social reforms and to prepare these partners for membership. i support such actions. however, the aid granted must be targeted and adapted to the individual situation of the beneficiaries. some of these countries are at an advanced stage of the necessary steps to meet the membership criteria, while others are in a situation where their internal situation, including civil matters, requires special attention.
in writing. - i voted to accept the recommendation. the predecessor of this institution proved its usefulness to the beneficiary countries in the accession process. the ipa has been a major aid to the candidate countries for eu membership. this programme should be continued and the economic and political development of the candidate countries should be supported, with the aim of bringing their institutions into line with the eu institutions.
in writing. − the countries seeking to join the european union and those currently negotiating accession are forced to undertake a number of often very profound reforms to bring their legislation into line with the eu acquis. this is a costly and time-consuming process and it is therefore essential to provide them with the appropriate means to facilitate and accelerate the necessary changes in key areas such as the fight against corruption, strengthening the rule of law and good governance, and public administration reform. the preaccession assistance instrument will serve precisely these purposes, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the ipa-ii preaccession assistance instrument is intended to finance the european union's enlargement policy for the period 2014-2020 and is a continuation of the ipa-i instrument which expires at the end of 2013. i voted in favour of this report because the tripartite talks with the commission and the council had secured parliament's main demands, including the possibility for the ep to review its priorities at mid-term and to adjust them to the conditions prevailing at the time. the report is accompanied by an important political declaration on the continuation of support for minorities.
in writing. - ladies and gentlemen! technical and financial assistance to enlargement countries from the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa ii) is intended to support these countries in the process of changing from potential candidate to candidate status and in their aspirations towards eventual membership of the union. these funds are intended to improve the situation of the regions, to increase security and political protection in these areas, to emphasise the importance of respect for human rights and to speed up the process of european integration. in order to better absorb union funds, the administrative capacity of the assisted countries should also be improved. i believe that civil society and its organisations should play a key role in improving this capacity and in the political and democratic development of these countries. the partner countries must be supported at every stage of the process of moving closer to the european union, which is why i voted in favour of the report by mr rouck.
in writing. − the instrument for pre-accession assistance provides support to countries in their preparation for integration with the european union. the commission will continue to support the implementation of the european solidarity corps, in particular by providing support to the implementation of the european solidarity corps in the member states. the european commission's priority for the new budgetary period is to simplify procedures and facilitate access to eu budget support for candidates, potential candidates, regions, social and civic organisations and small and medium-sized enterprises. the objectives of the assistance should be set out in the national strategy papers adopted by the commission for the period of the multiannual financial framework as an indicative framework for partnership with the beneficiary countries, on the basis of their specific needs and specific enlargement programmes. the various services of the commission are responsible for the management and implementation of aid in the various policy areas. however, coordination, communication and implementation of the instrument will be improved by simplifying many aspects, including closer joint monitoring of implementation progress in countries benefiting from pre-accession funds.
in writing. - the european union market cannot be confined to europe, but should go beyond it, have a global reach. to this end, the union needs a financial instrument for its external policy to finance activities aimed at developing relations and partnerships with third countries around the world. there is no doubt that political dialogue and partnership building are key elements of the eu's foreign policy. it is in the union's strongest interest to strengthen its relations with countries with which the union intends to pursue its strategic objectives, in particular with developed and developing countries, which are playing an increasingly important role in international relations, in particular in global governance and the global economy. such partnership is also essential for solving global problems that concern the people of the union but which the union cannot solve alone. for these reasons, i support the partnership instrument, because i believe it will serve a good cause.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the eu's cooperation with third countries helps to make its workings visible in the world and thus also to promote the values embedded in the union's activities. cooperation with third country economies will contribute to increased world market share by removing barriers to business contacts between different partners.
in writing. - i voted to accept the report. the promotion of democracy and human rights is at the heart of the european union's work. facilitated access to finance will allow for rapid ad hoc action in the form of direct support and low-value grants.
in writing. − its objective is to contribute to the development and consolidation of democracy and the rule of law, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in third countries (outside the eu): • to strengthen respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance with the universal declaration of human rights and other international and regional human rights instruments; to support and strengthen democracy and democratic reform in third countries, in particular by supporting civil society organisations; • to provide support and solidarity to human rights defenders and victims of repression or abuse; to strengthen civil society organisations active in the field of human rights and democracy; • to support and strengthen international and regional frameworks defining, in particular, a framework for the protection, monitoring and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms; • to strengthen civil society engagement in the process of democratic governance, by supporting and promoting civil society engagement in the process of democratic governance, by fostering and promoting the development of civil society through the establishment and monitoring of civil society organisations and its participation in the electoral process; the instrument operates worldwide at regional, national and international levels.
in writing. - i voted to accept the report. in developing its common development policy, the european union seeks to exploit to the fullest extent the potential of all its member states, and in so doing, acting on the basis of the union's overriding values, seeks to establish a coherent instrument for financing development cooperation. it is important that the union endeavours to align funding opportunities with the partner countries' internal development plans, which will enable them to implement their national development programmes.
in writing. − the economic crisis, as well as changes in the global trade structure, continue to cause large companies to move outside the eu or even to cease operations, resulting in the loss of thousands of jobs. the european globalisation adjustment fund has been effective in helping people who have lost their jobs as a result of the negative effects of globalisation to find new jobs and acquire new skills. i welcome the continuation of eu support under the capital instrument for growth (efg) for 2014-2020 and its extension to new categories of workers: self-employed, fixed-term contract and temporary agency workers, as this is an effective tool to help the unemployed return to the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the directive aimed at increasing the scope of the exchange of tax information will help to combat tax fraud and increase the detection of tax evasion, which is a serious problem in times of economic crisis. the directive will lay the foundations for the world's largest exchange of tax information.
in writing. - today we adopted an amendment to the directive on the exchange of financial information between eu countries. it covers new categories of income of a financial nature, i.e. dividend income, capital gains and income from assets in bank accounts this is partly a response to the growing number of member states signing tax information exchange agreements with the united states under fatca. the absence of new categories of income in eu legislation would result in a wider exchange of information between eu countries and the us than between eu countries. that is why i voted in favour of this directive.
in writing. − the transport of radioactive materials is often international, cross-border, and therefore needs to be regulated at community level in addition to national regulations. it would be desirable to establish a common system of registration of carriers and to transfer some of the national competences to the european commission. the sometimes divergent national procedures would be replaced by common union procedures for the authorisation of carriers of radioactive materials, reporting and surveillance. this unification of procedures would reduce the administrative burden in practice and ensure more effective control of transport throughout the eu. unfortunately, this regulation does not take due account of the problem of carriers who are unable to provide full protection against the dangers of ionising radiation. if such incidents occur, the transport of radioactive material should be stopped immediately, all countries where such transport was foreseen should be notified of the risk and the carrier should be required to comply with strict transport rules, as this is fundamental for the safety of people and the protection of the environment.
madam president! the human rights situation in many regions of the world remains a serious challenge. our greatest concern is what is happening beyond the eastern border. the use of force against peaceful demonstrators in kiev is not in the canons of a democratic state based on the rule of law. i would like to express my solidarity with the pro-western ukrainian opposition. there is no doubt that the policies of most of the countries of the former soviet union are inspired by the current russian authorities. the same ones who so shamefully discriminate against their own citizens, including the activists of independent ngos. religious freedom is another issue, with christian minorities in muslim countries still facing brutality and violence. i look forward to brussels' increased commitment to human rights in these dimensions.
in writing. − in accordance with article 21 of the treaty on european union, the defence of the principles of democracy and the indivisibility of human rights is one of the main activities and objectives of the european union. i believe that in cases of non-compliance, the eu institutions, as well as the governments of the member states, must act in a consistent and unanimous manner. defending human rights and democratic values is a key priority for europeans and a marker of good political relations with other countries. i believe that the european union today needs even better coordination between the various eu institutions in the fight for respect for human dignity and a more effective dialogue with third countries. moreover, member states must act in a more responsible manner. i think that despite the positive reception of the eu's 2012 annual report on human rights and democracy, the ongoing civil unrest and armed conflict in many parts of the world clearly show how many challenges the european union still has to face.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the problem of milk production in mountain areas, less-favoured areas and the outermost regions. given that the milk quota system will be abolished by 2015, it is the milk producers in those areas who will be most affected by the changes. the situation is all the more dramatic because for the inhabitants of mountain farms, milk production is the main source of income, an integral part of the culture of these areas and often the main driving force of the local economy. the commission notes that the milk quota system is not a system of quotas, but a system of quotas for milk. i therefore believe that a specific programme to support the dairy sector in less-favoured areas is necessary to prevent negative economic and environmental impacts in these areas.
in writing. − one of the key objectives of the new cap is to support agriculture in less-favoured areas, mountain areas and the outermost regions. due to the cultural and social conditions linked to tradition, agricultural activity in these areas is usually directed towards animal husbandry and milk production. the commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the rules on state aid. almost 10% of the milk produced in the union is produced in mountain areas, and this percentage is much higher in countries such as austria, slovenia and finland. very often they are provided by small and medium-sized family farms, for which this production is the only source of livelihood, and withdrawal from it would result in migration to urban areas. the small variation in agricultural activities due to the terrain and climate, the higher production and transport costs and the specific infrastructure are challenges that producers in disadvantaged areas have to deal with on a daily basis. we must therefore support regional programmes for the development of mountain areas, the nuw and the outermost regions, which guarantee the development of markets, increase competition and the quality of the products produced there. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road.
in writing. − the european dairy sector is important in the new common agricultural policy for 2014-2020. at its last meeting in strasbourg (9-12 december 2013), it voted to maintain milk production in mountain areas, less-favoured areas and outermost regions following the expiry of the milk quota system. for the first time in 31 years, the dairy quota, which expires in 2015, is not included in that sector. i support the abolition of milk quotas and the liberalisation of the milk market, which will take place in 2015. however, some negative developments can be expected in less-favoured areas and in the outermost regions, as milk production is often the only source of income for these regions. the local community is heavily dependent on the dairy sector and should be supported. further action at european level is most needed to ensure a secure future for this sector. the creation of decent living conditions for farmers must be ensured, with a focus on the most vulnerable areas. in view of the population living in mountain areas, as well as in disadvantaged or remote areas, i vote in favour of the report presented by the committee on agriculture and rural development and agree that this issue cannot be ignored or left unresolved.
in writing. − the european dairy sector faces major challenges after quotas expire in 2015. this substantial change is likely to cause disruption in the dairy sector, in particular in smaller farms and in disadvantaged and outermost regions. for these regions, milk production is often the only source of income and the local community is largely dependent on the dairy sector. further action at european level is necessary to ensure a secure future for this sector and to avoid the rural depopulation and the negative economic and environmental impacts. milk production is associated with high costs for small farms and milk producers' associations should be supported in order to allow small farms in those areas adequate market access and income. the rapporteur believes that the so-called milk package, which aims to strengthen the negotiating position of producers, is only a first step, but it is not enough to ensure the future of milk producers in the least-favoured areas. furthermore, it is of great importance to continue monitoring the effects of the abolition of quotas, especially in less-favoured areas and in the outermost regions. i fully support the evaluation report and the proposals contained in it, which is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of adopting a report on disaster resilience and risk reduction in developing countries. the recent tragic events in the philippines after the typhoon show us how often we are witnessing all kinds of natural disasters today. they are the result of ongoing irreversible climate change, improper land use or environmental degradation. as a result, millions of people worldwide suffer from hunger and malnutrition. i therefore believe that action to reduce the risk of natural disasters is a matter of priority. continuous work is needed to improve early warning systems, especially in countries most at risk of natural disasters. another method of prevention is to put in place risk assessment programmes, to finance preventive procedures, which are much less expensive than repairing the effects of a disaster. i hope that through long-term risk assessments, effective cooperation between governments, local authorities and humanitarian organisations, we can work together to reduce the risk of natural disasters worldwide.
in writing. - i voted to accept the report. particular attention should be paid to the situation of women with disabilities in developing countries, where 80% of the disabled population live. a key aspect of eu action towards women with disabilities should be direct action aimed at them to build their acceptance of disability and their ability to cope with the next stages of life.
in writing. - the draft resolution deals with a very important issue. it raises the issue of discrimination against women on grounds of gender and, in addition, discrimination on grounds of disability. we have repeatedly drawn attention to the unacceptable practices of women being treated worse in terms of access to employment, equal pay, a higher risk of unemployment than men, and lower pensions due to shorter periods of employment due to childcare or disabled family members. in addition to these negative effects of gender discrimination for women with disabilities there is also discrimination on the basis of their disability. this double discrimination very often contributes to the social exclusion of women with disabilities and makes these women, deprived of the support and tools to make their lives easier, experience deepening poverty. this is why we need to develop and promote programmes for women with disabilities, both at eu and national level, which will give them opportunities for greater social inclusion. i therefore call on the commission to work with the member states to develop the solutions needed to achieve this and to integrate them into the social policies of the european union.
in writing. − the retail sector is one of the pillars of the single market and is of strategic importance to the eu economy, accounting for 11% of gdp and 15% of all jobs in the european union. it is also of great social importance, as it is composed mainly of thousands of micro- and family-owned businesses. unfortunately, the retail sector still faces many obstacles, barriers and unfair trading practices that make it possible for it to develop sustainably within the internal market. long-term measures are therefore needed to help the sector develop, especially in times of crisis. the european retail action plan should, on the one hand, focus on removing barriers that undermine consumer confidence and directly harm the interests of the retail sector, such as unfair trading practices, product reclassifications or territorial supply restrictions. on the other hand, it should stimulate its development by promoting e-commerce, lowering vat and improving access to sources of finance and capital markets, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the retail sector is one of the main components of the labour market, providing employment at 15% of all jobs in the member states of the european union. retailers operating in more than one country should be provided with harmonised requirements for their products so that compliance with administrative requirements does not create additional barriers to doing business.
mr president, commissioner, the directive on maritime spatial planning and integrated coastal management is a landmark development for the eu’s maritime policy. it sets up, for the first time, a framework for coordinated and systematic management of maritime space in all member states. its usefulness derives primarily from the certainty that it provides for projects and new industrial transport investments. usefulness comes also from the capabilities it offers for environmental protection. maritime activity spills across national borders and, as a result, cannot be managed effectively without eu action. in this respect really we need community methodology. the position of the parliament was formed through close cooperation between members of the committee on transport and tourism and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. it will, without doubt, help to make maritime spatial planning the driving force for many new investment projects concerning sustaining growth in our seas and land around. madam rapporteur meissner: congratulations!
the green infrastructure project, which was prepared by the european commission and for which salvatore tatarella was responsible in the environment committee, is a very important project. we must remember that natural resources are not inexhaustible, especially when they are misused. nature has not only aesthetic value, but is also the element behind such sensitive parts of our lives and economy as providing drinking water, retention, purifying the air from pollutants or regulating the climate at a local level. this is why this eu project, which involves the sustainable use of nature in infrastructure projects, is so important. for example, in poland we are faced with the problem of river regulation, and therefore this programme can be an opportunity to use the most advantageous and naturally neutral methods of retention, minimising the use of so-called grey, i.e. conventional infrastructure. i also welcome the proposal to integrate green infrastructure issues more widely in other areas such as transport, agricultural policy and spatial planning. the projects under discussion may be part of a wider eu policy to reconcile economic development with environmental protection. this document should be an inspiration for regional policies in europe and should be the subject of debate amongst those politicians and citizens who will be involved in the development of sustainable development agendas in urban and municipal policies.
mr. chairman, please! in view of what has been happening in ukraine in recent days, i believe that the european council must also discuss the situation in that country and the relations between the union and ukraine, and that is why i am proposing an oral amendment. as a result of the consultation i conducted yesterday, the wording of the text differs slightly from that proposed in the voting list. the amendment would read as follows: 'is deeply concerned about the political situation in ukraine in the aftermath of the vilnius summit and calls on the council to address it'.
in writing. − in view of the increasing number of cases before the ets and the increasing length of time it takes to deal with them, an increase in the number of judges in the court seems to be the most sensible solution. i hope that the guidelines adopted today by a large majority on the next step towards reforming the eu judiciary will provide the impetus for the council to break the deadlock on this issue. i understand that finding a formula for selecting additional judges that satisfies all parties is not an easy task, but it is time to look constructively at possible solutions. the european parliament is proposing one of them and wants to start a discussion with the council which i hope will lead to a concrete proposal in the near future on how to elect additional judges to the court. i believe that any further delay in this decision can only have a negative impact on the efficiency and effectiveness of the union's judiciary, which is why i voted in favour of the proposals put forward by mrs thein.
in writing. − given that a clean and healthy environment is one of the european union's priorities, support for eco-innovation is essential to achieving this. environmental challenges such as climate change and limited resources require change and radical action, in which green technologies can play a key role. eco-innovation is not only beneficial for environmental reasons, but also a response to the crisis that is engulfing europe, especially among young people. the organic industry already creates 3.4 million jobs and, with the help of the union, can become a major employer of high-quality jobs. europe is currently a leader in the development of new technologies, but there are many barriers, such as access to finance or consumer awareness, which will further accelerate their development. with clear rules that support eco-innovation, europe can create competitive manufacturing companies and become a leader in environmentally-efficient production too.
in writing. −eco-innovation is a form of innovation that aims to make significant and visible progress towards sustainable development, with the aim of making more efficient and responsible use of natural resources. environmentally friendly innovation aims, for example, to reduce co2 emissions and to use resources such as water and other natural resources more efficiently. the report highlights the potential of eco-innovation to stimulate the economy and increase competitiveness and employment. this is further supported by the fact that eco-innovation generates environmental benefits and can play a significant role in an efficient, low-carbon economy, thereby addressing global challenges such as climate change, scarcity of natural resources and other food security issues. in order to accelerate the development of green innovation and to better exploit its potential, further action is needed in various areas, such as strengthening the legal framework for sustainable development in different sectors, investing in education, training and retraining, facilitating access to finance through better use of existing financial instruments. improving the use of resources and energy and engaging in a wide range of innovations will improve the environment and lead to new industries and new jobs in the coming years. the eu should support and promote successful eco-innovation.
mr. chairman, please! access to basic banking services is a prerequisite for participating in socioeconomic life in today's world. however, the world bank estimates that 58 million people in the european union do not have a bank account or have difficulty opening one. unfortunately, this problem also affects people who take up employment in another member state but do not have a permanent address. in view of the increasing mobility of workers and the principle of free movement of persons, these disadvantages must be eliminated. some of the proposed provisions, however, concern matters that should be left to the national banking legislation, for example, requiring all providers to offer basic payment services would mean that non-banks that deal with money transfers would also have to develop such products.
in writing. - mr president! - what are you doing? the european capital of culture is a highly coveted distinction for cities. it is a sign of nobility and a recognisable brand for centres of culture and creativity, both in europe and worldwide. it is not without reason that it has been described as one of the most successful community initiatives in recent times. in the year of the millennium, krakow was one of nine such capitals. thanks to this program, it remains the most visited polish city by foreign tourists. i hope that wroclaw will have the same success, including this function in three years. i like the proposal that in addition to the two member states sharing the title each year, candidate and associated countries should also be given the opportunity to nominate their cities periodically, which will help to strengthen cooperation.
mr. chairman, please! i am pleased that the vilnius summit was able to initial the association agreements, including the deepened free trade area with georgia and moldova. unfortunately, also as a result of a series of diplomatic mistakes by the european union, the ukrainian authorities have decided to suspend negotiations with brussels against the will of their own people. in the background, the kremlin's activity to limit the sovereignty of its closest neighbors is clearly visible. the failure to sign the association treaty can be seen as a failure of european diplomacy in the field of eastern policy. i call for an intensification of action towards moscow, including a strong position on the continuing border tensions between georgia and russia. i call on president yanukovych to stop the aggression against the protesters and to start constructive talks with the public and the opposition.
in writing. - the resolution was adopted in response to the outcome of the vilnius summit of the cor, and in particular to the events in ukraine. the eu has also provided support to the ukrainian authorities in the implementation of the daca. however, the association agreements and the free trade area with moldova and georgia were initialled. the european aspirations of ukrainian citizens expressed in the protests in ukraine should be supported. the next step in supporting these aspirations should be to change the visa regime, as well as supporting the proposal to establish an eastern partnership university for young people from these countries.
in writing. − i strongly supported the joint resolution on the outcome of the eastern partnership summit in vilnius, mainly because of the issues related to ukraine. despite the lack of an association agreement at the summit, ukraine must not close the road to the union. recent events on the maidan show the strong support of the ukrainian public for pro-eu ideas. the disagreement with the decision of the authorities is obvious, which is why meps should not limit the european aspirations of ukrainian society. we need concrete solutions to help with integration. one such desirable solution is the abolition of visas for ukrainians. it's a remedy that can change the current stalemate in relationships. i strongly support the resolution's strong condemnation of the violence used on the night of 9-10 and 10-11 december against peaceful protesters. another important point in the resolution is the condemnation of russia for exerting economic and political pressure on ukraine to pull it away from the european union. the resolution calls on the member states to open up to ukraine by strengthening cooperation in research, youth exchanges and increasing the rates of available scholarships, and further emphasises that further steps should be taken to integrate ukraine into the internal energy market.
mr. chairman, please! it is important that parliament reaffirms its support for albania's accession. it is a member of nato and therefore remains part of the european security strategy. the aim should be to grant candidate country status as soon as possible, after the country has carried out key reforms. like other aspiring states in the region, albania must make efforts to democratize, including guaranteeing pluralism and freedom of the media. the areas of security and judicial activity, in particular the fight against corruption and organised crime, require improvement. the june elections were conducted in a proper manner despite attempts to disrupt them, and public confidence in the electoral process itself has increased. the growing and stabilising role of tirana in the balkan region is also becoming more visible.
mr. chairman, please! the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in ukraine. this is, in my view, the most important issue for the member states' leaders to address at the moment. for three weeks, protests have been going on in kiev and other cities against the authorities' decision to withdraw approval of the association agreement with the european union. the breakdown of negotiations was carried out against the will of the ukrainian public, which expresses pro-european aspirations. unfortunately, the eu's diplomatic engagement with its eastern neighbours has so far proved insufficient, revealing a complete lack of policy coherence, especially with regard to russia. i call on all parties to take all possible steps to find a positive solution to the ukrainian crisis. kiev's close relationship with brussels is an opportunity for all of europe.
in writing. − the constitutional characteristic of each state is its sovereignty, i.e. the free, independent and autonomous exercise of political power within its own territory. unfortunately, too much integration of the european union can threaten this sovereignty, and therefore we must be very cautious about any legislative initiative that interferes in this area. the report by mr gualtieri and mr trzaskowski calls for further unification of the european union, for the creation of a de facto economic and monetary union, which must necessarily come at the expense of taking away certain powers from the authorities of the member states. the report's basic recommendation to strengthen the union's competences, in particular in the field of economic policy, and to increase budgetary capacity and the role of the commission and the prerogatives of parliament is, in my view, unacceptable.
the author. - mr president! - what are you doing? in the last few days alone, several hundred people have been killed in the fighting in bangui. among the dead were two french paratroopers from the international intervention force, shot by unknown assailants. foreign media outlets were reportedly seized by the rebels and journalists were forced to evacuate. the coalition of muslim seleka groups has been committing crimes against the christian population for many months, and their situation is becoming more and more serious. further escalation could lead to mass religious killings. i call on all parties to the conflict to renounce violence and to begin dialogue. those guilty of crimes must be brought to justice. the involvement of international organisations is essential to prevent a humanitarian catastrophe in the first place. i look to the united nations to ensure that the civilian population is protected and its basic needs met .
on behalf of the ppe group. the conflict in the central african republic is clearly escalating. as of mid-2012, the seleka forces have been engaged in a number of violent acts against the civilian population. moreover, women and children are victims of this violence with alarming frequency. the scale of the violence, which i have to speak of with great concern, is confirmed by the fact that on december 5 alone, 400 people were killed in 72 hours in bangui. the fact that these acts of violence are being carried out by armed groups with modern weapons, including heavy weapons, is even more worrying. it's good that the un security council has asked for the preparation of a possible peacekeeping mission. i am convinced that the european union should support these efforts. france cannot be left alone in its efforts to stabilise the situation in the central african republic. the european union should be involved in the preparation of a political plan for this country that would lead it to the establishment of a rule of peace and law.
mr. chairman, please! the central african republic is a classic example of a country that, despite its economic potential, is embroiled in regional, ethnic and religious conflicts due to its disastrous geographical location and has become one of the poorest parts of africa. the country has been mired in a political and humanitarian crisis for a long time. there is an increasing number of clashes between christians and muslims, and a nationwide wave of sexual violence, torture, executions, and religious clashes. various organizations, including the united nations, have long warned that further escalation of the conflict could lead to mass killings and outright religious warfare. all attempts to alleviate the situation have been in vain. we all need to be aware that without outside intervention, the crisis in the central african republic will only deepen.
in writing. in 1984, the chinese regime passed a law legalizing organ harvesting from executed prisoners. however, both the law and the practice seem to fall far short of the requirements of the world health organization. the lack of transparency in the process is due to the fact that the rules are vague and difficult to control. the practice of the chinese authorities to kill religious and political prisoners in order to sell their organs for transplantation is also reprehensible. this also coincides with the brutal campaign of persecution of falun gong practitioners in china for many years, who are not allowed to receive organ transplants because of their faith. organs are also harvested from them, in violation not only of international legal standards but also of religious and ethical ones. i will continue to stress that the european parliament has a duty to respond to situations where fundamental values and human rights are violated. in this respect, i note that the declaration by the goc that it will gradually withdraw from the above practice from 2015 is insufficient. i therefore support today's resolution and call on the chinese government to immediately stop harvesting organs from prisoners who do not consent to it. at the same time, i believe that it is necessary to punish those responsible for these reprehensible practices. i also hope that our resolution will draw the attention of the relevant international organisations to this issue, thereby forcing an appropriate response from the chinese institutions.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it's very good that we're talking, even though we're talking about sri lanka again. this is a country that, as we all know, has experienced terrible things: years of war, crime, murder, rape, displacement, and you could multiply the terrible things that have happened there. fortunately, we finally have a few years of peace. what can we do for sri lanka? of course, we have to help sri lanka build a state, build institutions of state. we as the european union, as the member states of the european union, especially those that, like the united kingdom, have a long history of relations with sri lanka, we should help sri lanka both financially and organizationally and by giving them our know-how on how to build a state, because it is a state that has to be built from the ground up, a state that we hope will function peacefully. these nations, these groups that have been at war, will be able to function peacefully. but of course, we need the truth, we need an investigation. i hope that by the end of this, the sri lankan people will be able to solve these problems themselves.
on behalf of the s&d group. sri lanka's selection to host the commonwealth summit in november has been met with criticism from the international community, which accuses the country's authorities of failing to continue to deal with the crimes of its 30-year civil war. the conflict has left between 80,000 and 100,000 people dead, 6,000 missing and 400,000 displaced. appreciating the efforts made so far to normalize living conditions in the north of the country, the gradual dismantling of refugee camps and minefield settlements, we look forward to continued efforts to conduct a thorough investigation and to submit a detailed un report on the war crimes committed in the months leading up to the end of the civil war in 2009. it is not easy to settle accounts for more than a quarter of a century of war, but it is nevertheless an essential step towards further democratization and reconciliation processes.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the sri lankans have been terrorized by the tamil tigers for many years. in the final stages of the conflict, the un report found that the army was also committing crimes. they were making bloody peace with each other. the authorities of this multi-religious country must make every effort to reconcile citizens of different ethnic groups. i appeal to the governments to continue to work towards the solution of political, economic and social problems. the basis is decentralization, whereby individual groups gain control of local administration within a unified state. it is imperative that the crime be solved, an independent investigation be launched and the guilty be brought to justice. serious human rights abuses are compounded by pervasive crime, resulting in mysterious disappearances and rampant corruption. i look to the community to help build democracy in sri lanka.
in writing. how to reconcile economic development with increasingly stringent environmental requirements is a crucial issue today. one of the possible answers is certainly eco-innovation. eco-innovation aims to introduce new products that not only benefit producers and consumers, but also drastically reduce the negative impact on the environment. this eu project, which is designed to support entrepreneurs in all sectors, will, however, place particular emphasis on the following sectors: waste, construction products and food products. research and development funding can help to remove barriers to competitive business solutions that are sustainable. at the same time, innovation gains can have a positive impact on the competitiveness of union products in the world, by contributing to growth in outlets and jobs within the union, which is particularly important in times of economic crisis. at the same time, i believe that support for this type of innovation can have a positive impact on the eu's wider climate goals. investments, if properly targeted, can bring potential emissions reductions and energy efficiency gains to the union economy. i would therefore like to support the current wording of the report.
